This AI world is coming
and we're all terrified of what it
means.
Why does education seem fundamentally
broken today when it didn't 30 years
ago? The the biggest picture, I think,
if you talk to parents of like why
there's
agitation for change, is this AI world
is coming
and we're all terrified of what it
means, but what we do know, and we don't
know exactly what it means, but what we
do know is the education system that we
all went through
isn't going to prepare the kids for that
world,
right? And I feel that as a catalyst for
people to say the old system wasn't
working or the old system needs to
change, that's just a huge driver. Like
if, you know, I talked to lots of
kindergarten parents, you know, and
they're just looking and saying, "In a
dozen years, you know, if I put my kid
in standard school that I went through,
is that going to prepare them for this
AI world?" And they're like, "No, that's
not." So, there's a drive that we need
something different. But even 10 years
ago it was different. Like your
daughter, right before AI even hit the
scene, Yeah. uh I felt it, you felt it,
like something is not working with the
school system. Yeah. Well, and and
schools are failing, you know, that if
you look at, you know, just pure
academic results, just take academic
results independent of AI, you're you're
right. Uh
test scores keep going down every How is
that possible? We keep spending more and
more money. It's, you know, uh
you know, there's there's a lot of
reasons around it. Um uh it's a comp a
school is a complicated bundle. And
academic performance is only one
element, and it's one fundamentally that
schools have basically say it doesn't
matter that much anymore. And so,
everybody's willing to let everybody
involved in the ecosystem has been
willing to let the standards drop. And I
believe part of it is because the way
our system is built today, you know,
there's basically a couple truisms
about, you know, the the standard school
system. The first is the way it's
structured is a time-based system where
you move up every year and you have a
teacher in front of a classroom.
There's basically you have two
attributes for people who do well in
that system. One, it's IQ coded, which
is higher IQ better is better. And
second, it's big five conscientiousness
coded. If Are you a natural grinder? Oh,
you know, a sort of And if you have
those two attributes, you do really well
in our existing school system. But if
you don't, you don't do well.
Right? And so and the system doesn't
adapt for anybody who doesn't do well in
those two those two elements.
Um and so you you have that as sort of
one dimension of why the system's not
working cuz it's if you're not one of
those two Um and then the second
dimension over here is fundamentally
about resources and
factually, independent of any, you know,
political or anything, is just
factually,
you know, one of the strongest
determinations of whether
you learn, your educational outcome, and
how much you know, is based on your
family's income.
And the whole system is just geared that
way, sort of it's just look at the
results. And so you sort of have these
just two systems like this and that's
why they're like, "Okay, we'll spend
more money." and all these things, but
fundamentally it's it's just broken
because those those elements, right,
aren't being changed. Right? If you have
a time-based system that's based on IQ
and conscientious, you can pour all the
money you want into it and it doesn't
change those.
Right? It doesn't make kids more I give
them higher IQ, give them more
conscientiousness. And so it doesn't fix
the problem.
And uh and so that's that's a lot of the
the issues that you have.
>> admit as a society that there is a
problem or is it just sort of like
>> Yeah, I This is this is I think where it
gets complicated. Uh at least in in you
have US versus global is a little
different, which is as a society
everybody America's like wow our schools
suck, you know, it's just there's every
article, right? Just constant stream of
there's an unending stream of look at
how bad all these school scores and
grades go down and everything and then
COVID was even worse, but you know, just
everything's bad. Um,
80% of the grade inflation everybody
knows you're like, you know, 80% of
people at Harvard get A's now. It's
like, oh just give A's out to everybody.
And so we all know that the standards
have been dropped. But
the thing in the US that's different
especially and if you look globally is
in the US there's a big disconnect
between educational outcomes
and your earning potential.
Which is they're not as tightly
correlated as they are in the rest of
the world. Right. They're very tightly
correlated in the rest of the world and
not in the US. And so there's a big
thing among
parents who are just like
the academics don't matter that much.
There's all these other things, the life
skills and all these other skills that
matter more than the academics. And so I
don't really care as much. And I guess a
good story about this was when, you
know, I became principal 3 years ago.
And you know, our first product, the way
I positioned it, you know, was
2X learning. Your kid will learn twice
as much.
And
fundamentally I got incredible pushback
from parents about that. Like surprising
amounts of pushback. And I was so
surprised. I mean I I was doing hundreds
of parent-teacher meetings, right? With,
you know, and explaining it and I'd be
in a meeting, you know, and I'd be like
you know, mom, dad, and Johnny.
And I'd just be like, look, Johnny's not
learning 2X. Because, you know, when he
misses the question, the video that
comes up that explains why he missed it
and how he can do the next one right, he
skips it. He just skips it. You know,
and
but he could learn 2X twice as much if
he just watched the video. And then
they're probably like, why are you
pressuring him? Why are you Yeah. Why
are you pressuring Johnny to learn 2X?
And I'm like, well, I okay, got it. And
it took me hundreds of meetings to
realize the parents don't value it. Now,
10% of the market does. 10% of the
market totally cares about
great academics, right? And so those
guys, they demand it. Like they don't
like 2-hour learning cuz it's not enough
learning. But we switched, so that was
my our big product market fit. If you
had to say the biggest pivot,
you know, from a marketing point of view
that unlocked, you know, sort of all the
all the stuff around Alpha was
and I was slow, but hundreds of meetings
in, I'm like, I'm going to change this
message. And I'd have mom, dad, same
Johnny, same mom and dad. Look, I'm
trying to get Johnny out of here in 2
hours, so he can do all the cool stuff
the rest of the day. Trying to get him
out of here. And you know, he skips the
videos, and if he just watch them, he'd
be done in 2 hours.
And then mom's like, Johnny, what's
wrong with you? Don't you want to get
out of here? Right? People want to get
out of the learning, right? They want to
get out of the academics. And when it's
only 2 hours, then everybody's aboard.
Um and now we still teach 2X in 2 hours,
right? We just emphasize the 2-hour part
into the question. No, we literally took
We It was 2X in 2 hours, and I'm like,
let's just drop it and call it 2-hour
learning, where you learn 2X in
parentheses. Well, let's talk about
Alpha School. What is Alpha School? So,
Alpha School is a uh
high-end private school, um expanding
nationwide. We'll have uh 25 campuses
around the country
uh this year. And the way to think about
Alpha School is if you could revisit
and just say, we need to build an
educational system that's going to be
ready for when AI comes, you know, when
when the this whatever world's going to
be here in a decade, right? What would
you do? Just ground up rewrite, ignore
everything you and I went through,
right? 6 hours a day in class and
homework and all that, and just rewrite
it of what are the skills the kids need,
how should they spend the day, how do
you do that? What would it be?
And so that's what we're doing at Alpha
School. The other part we do is we also
say we definitely took off budget
constraints. It's a high-end private
school. We're like, if if money's no
object, which is gives us a sort of our
high-end design. Now, we're going to get
the cost down and and drive it down, but
for the first version, this Alpha
School, it's it's it's the high-end.
And so we we we have built a school that
is totally different than every other
school out there. Um
and the principles that we underlie that
underlie it. Um
You know, first, you know, we said if
Look, if you're going to redo school,
and we're going to put our kids in this
for a decade, the number one rule is
kids must love school. Mhm. They must
love school.
Right? And, you know, that is our core
principle and it's what makes everything
happen.
And when I talk about, you know, to
principals and superintendents and other
heads of school, I'm just like, if you
don't believe that, all this other stuff
you hear about, you know, two-hour
learning and all this, it's not going to
work. You have to believe that core
value that kids must love school. And we
got our ranking like, I think it was
like 96% the last. We survey our kids
every 8 weeks and it was, you know, 96%
of our kids said yes. But we actually
raised it we it got too high. It's not a
good metric when everybody says yes. So,
we added a second question, which was,
do you love school more than vacation?
Right? And we get about 40 to 60% of our
kids. 40 to 60% of our kids who say
they'd rather go to school than
vacation. Which is that's the metric now
that we wake up every day is we're like
We have to build a school where the kids
want to go instead of vacation. The
highlight of my time as principal,
3 years ago was when I started. Uh in
May of this year, 2/3 of our high school
kids sent me a note and they're like,
Mr. Lemont, can we keep the school open
this summer cuz we don't want a summer
break?
And I I hated high school. Like I I the
school part.
>> I would never have asked ever in a A
million years.
>> ever. And I was just like, okay, we are,
you know, and there's a lot that unpack
why they wanted it and all that stuff,
but that's that's the core. If we're
going to put our kids in for, right, a
decade, 12 years of this stuff, we as
parents, right, should just say they
should love it. Like, you know, and and
there's this view that no, it's spinach,
you know, and that I I had that view,
you know, um
that, you know, I wasn't the founder of
Alpha, but I was talking to McKinsey and
and Brian started it. And I was talking
to Brian when I first put my kids in it.
And I was like, what are the things I
don't know
about education that I should know? He's
like, kids must love school.
Like, love school. And I'm like, mhm,
it's spinach. He's like, you don't get
it.
Your kids are going to come here and
you're going to figure it out. And now
I'm like, total religion, right? That
they absolutely have to and it makes all
the magic happen.
And what's interesting is when I talk to
other business executives,
you know, about this no, it should be
spinach. I'm like,
is that what you think for your
employees? Do you like wake up and say,
man, you know what, this job sucks and
it should suck. And no, I'm not going to
try to make them like this job. Just
suck it up.
But deliriously, they turn around to
their kids and say the same thing. Like,
dude, suck it up. Yeah. Right? No, it's
ridiculous that you should like school.
That's just insane cuz we didn't like it
and we went through the system. But if
we're rebuilding it, we just need to
totally undo that thought process we
have that, you know, kids should hate
school. They should love it. I think
that was the moment where I started to
question the school system, which was
just about pre-COVID.
And, you know, I was made to feel like
my kids were the problem.
And I was like, I don't like they're not
a problem at home. Why are they all of a
sudden a problem at school? Like, what's
going on in the classroom? Right. And
then when it shut down and we all got to
peer inside what's going on in the
classroom, I'm like, oh my god, like,
100% agree with my kids, you know, this
is crazy. Is this what you're doing all
day? Like, is this what they're learning
and how they're learning and Um but
before we get to all of what you're
doing different, like what are the
results? Yeah. So, let's talk about the
results. So, the Alpha school, um
you know, one, our our kids love school.
It's just they're phenomenal results. Uh
when you talk about academically, we're
the best academic performing school in
the country. Just
bar none. So, you can measure us on We
We are big believers in standardized
tests.
Because no one, when you hear about the
whole how Alpha works, nobody believes
it will work. And so, even, you know, a
lot of parents don't believe in
standardized tests when they come in.
And I'm like, "Okay, your kids only
doing 2 hours a day." And they're like,
"Well, how do I know they're learning?"
I'm like, "Trust me." They're like, "No,
I don't trust you." And so, when they
score, you know, top of 790 and 800 math
SAT, they're like, "Okay, it's working."
Or on NA MAP test is the one we use,
NWEA. You know, when they're top 1%
every single class, every single subject
is top 1%. Every single year, every
single class, yes, every grade, every
subject, top 1%. Um
and we publish them.
Right? Back to We publish all these
results. We also our kids fundamentally
in the 2 hours are learning twice as
fast as if they sat in school for six
and did homework. And so, like, for
example, you on the MAP test, you know,
there's it's a 300-point scale. And so,
if you have like a 220 and you're a
fifth grader at, you know, 75th
percentile, you know, coming into Alpha,
you know, it's going to say you're going
to go up five points. You know, if
you're a normal kid, you're going to go
five points this year. Okay.
At Alpha, you're going to go up 10
points. Okay. Right? And so, it's just
quantifiable, so the parents can log in
and be like, "Wow,
right? My kid learned twice as much and
they only had to spend 2 hours a day
doing it." And so,
you know, and so, the the part that is
just amazing about Alpha
is, you know, there are a lot of private
schools that just select for good
students, right? Which is one one way to
do it. The other way is to make them
develop them. And so, ours is all about
growth. We'll take kids, right? And get
them from bottom half to top half to top
1%. Um that the growth rate of Alpha is
what the just unbelievable parts are.
Like if you you can go download our off
our website like our results and you can
put it into chat GPT and you're like
analyze the growth rate of Alpha versus
any other school in the country. And
it's like it's like four standard
deviations off the track cuz nobody does
this cuz we take people who are behind
and catch them up. But we take the top
1%.
And we move them years ahead. Cuz it's
the same thing. There's you know, even a
GT program at normal school, what do you
get one year ahead? You know, I have
third and fourth graders who outscore
50% of the high school graduates of this
country. That's amazing. You know, and
the end our product's gotten better over
time. My oldest daughter was in the
school. Um and she's now at Stanford.
And she was back and she was beating
some of the third and fourth graders and
she was looking at some of their scores
and she's like they are getting the
scores I got in seventh and eighth
grade.
>> Oh, wow.
>> Right? And she's like so the we're we're
we're even improving the product. Like
we're not done. Like when we get into
the learning science if you want to talk
about that and stuff. Like it's it's
human potential's unlimited and we are
tapped in and have that improvement
cycle going. So the amount kids can
learn in a great environment that they
love is just it's going to explode like
what what our generation thought was
knowing a lot. You're in meetings all
day. You're trying to stay present, but
you're also worried you'll forget the
decision, the action item, the important
next step. That's where Granola comes
in. Granola is an AI powered notepad for
meetings. You jot down rough notes like
you always do and in the background
Granola transcribes and turns them into
clear useful notes when the meeting
ends. There are no bots joining your
calls, no distractions, just a clean
notepad that helps you focus. During or
after for call, you can chat with your
notes. You can ask Granola to pull out
action items, help you negotiate, make a
decision, write a follow-up email, and
so much more. I even use it when I'm
listening to podcasts. Once you try it
on a first meeting, it's hard to go
without. Head to granola.ai/shane
and get 3 months free with the code
Shane. That's granola.ai/shane.
You know, people talk a lot about
product market fit, sales tactics, or
pricing strategy. But, the truth is,
success in selling often comes down to
something much simpler. The system
behind the sale. That's why I use and
love Shop Pay, because nobody does
selling better than Shopify.
They've built the number one checkout on
the planet, and with Shop Pay,
businesses see up to 50% higher
conversions. That's not a rounding
error. That's a game changer. Attention
is scarce. Shopify helps you capture it
and convert it.
If you're building a serious business,
your commerce platform needs to meet
your customers wherever they are. On
your site, in store, in their feed, or
right inside their inbox. The less they
think, the more they buy. Businesses
that sell more sell on Shopify. If
you're serious about selling, the tech
behind the scenes matters as much as the
product. Upgrade your business and get
the same checkout that I use.
Sign up for your $1 per month trial
period at shopify.com/knowledgeproject,
all lowercase. Go to
shopify.com/knowledgeproject,
upgrade your selling today.
shopify.com/knowledgeproject.
I imagine the pushback. I mentioned to
somebody I was talking to you today, and
this is probably common pushback, but
they were like, "Oh, yeah, they're
self-selecting. It's a bunch of rich
kids in Austin."
Um, and, you know, so their parents
care, they have tutors, they have all
these resources, and and I don't have
that. So, have you Like, what's the
pushback on that argument?
>> No, I So, here's selection effects are a
great discussion, which is
I'll I'll answer that second part of
okay, what if you're not rich
after it but before
you know, in in most education, there's
a view and this maybe because my
background because I'm not and I'm a
product guy.
You know, when I could came into
education, there's a view that you must
serve everybody all at once or you will
serve nobody.
Right? That's that's just sort of the
the view around everything. You have to
serve everybody all at once.
And that selection effects are bad.
I am like as a product guy, I'm like you
must use selection effects to build your
product, which is you have to select for
the right person who you're designing
your product for, right? And so
so yes, I there's no school that doesn't
have selection effects and yes, at Alpha
we select for those and we absolutely
have, you know, an easier cohort than
there's other cohorts that we'll talk
about that are harder than with the ones
we get. But compare us to every other
high-end private school in the country.
Right, I agree. Don't don't compare us
to
really hard situations.
Have us go compare us to the best. Go
take other 99% kids
and see why ours are learning three
times faster than those kids. Right? You
can get the score that says we benchmark
our 99% kids not against the average
kid. We benchmark them against the top
1% kid and our top 1% kids kill
everybody else's top 1% kids. So so I
and design you know, so selection
effects matter. So for example, we have
another school that's not Alpha. So we
have to get this down to everybody. You
know, Mike I'm going to spend 20 years
on this. I got to get it to a billion
kids. So I got to solve all the
different right demographics and and
issues.
So we have a a school rolling out. We
have a dozen that we've opened so far.
Texas Sports Academy, right? And so on
this one back to selection effects, our
tuition's going to be $15,000
for this school. It is $15,000 for the
school. And with the vouchers, it's in
Texas, and Texas has a new voucher
program that they announced billion
dollars of vouchers. So it'll be $12,000
voucher. So any family who's income
eligible for it, rich people can't get
it. But if you're income eligible for
it, you get $12,000 check. So it'll be a
$300 a month parent pay yep to go to
this school.
We're going to have generally people who
come in the bottom half academically.
>> Yeah. Right? Um
but
they're all people who love sports.
Right? And it's it's a middle school for
D1 aspirational athletes. Right? People
who wake up and they're like, I love
sports. Cuz back to us, I have to build
a school they love more than vacation.
Yeah. So I need to know what like lights
them up drives them and what drives
them. And so I'm like, great. So we can
do that. So we already have, you know,
and we'll have a you know, we'll publish
all the results.
>> But uh
these kids coming in,
they go in to the same app set that you
get at Alpha.
Right? They do the same 2 hours.
Right?
>> So now we have a wider funnel of kids
coming in from a academic backgrounds.
>> Different academic backgrounds. And
you're going to be able to see and we'll
be able to publish those results that
those kids can learn, too.
Right? Back to the thing is, you know,
we talked about why
>> Kids are learning machines. It's almost
like we get in the way of it as adults.
>> And and the problem with the kids
learning isn't the kid, it's the system.
Like we talked about that at the
beginning, where the system's coded high
IQ conscientiousness and how do you
unlock those? We've built a system that
breaks those two things, which is if you
have a mastery-based
AI tutor,
right? That only allows you to advance
after you've mastered the material.
Right? Right? Master the basics, right?
Which everybody in sports understands,
right? If it That's what our our system
does.
That makes it independent of IQ.
That makes it effort-based, not
IQ-based. And we have a ton of results,
which is we run a program and we have a
school, you know, back to the schools.
Every kid
can get 100% on their state standardized
test.
And we run this program called 100 for
100 to teach these kids. So, we'll have
middle schoolers coming into our sports
academy. Yeah.
And
they'll go into the system
and we'll be like, well,
we'll pay $100 if you get 100% on the
test.
And they're a seventh or eighth grader,
they're like, I I can't get 100 on the
test. And we're like, no, no, no.
Pick your grade level.
They're like, you're going to let me do
a third grade test and get 100? And
we're like, absolutely.
And so, they go take the third grade
test and they do get 100
on the third grade test.
And they're like, can I do fourth grade?
And then you do fourth grade.
Then on fifth grade, they only get a 75
cuz they have holes. They didn't learn
all that material
in fifth grade.
And then the AI tutor, they're like, do
you want the AI tutor to generate the
lessons you're missing?
And they're like, let me see how many.
And they're like, I can do that like in
a week or so.
>> Mhm. And they're like,
and another 100 bucks.
>> Yeah. And so, we get more 100s on state
standardized tests in a building of 200
people than a school district of
100,000.
And back to this concept that you have
to change with parents. If you interview
alpha parents or any parents and say,
can your kid get 100 on the state
standardized test? Fewer than 10% of
parents say yes. Because in our
generation, like only the GT kids did
that, right? None of us got that. Right?
And if you ask alpha kids, they're all
like,
Of course.
>> you can. I got one. Right? Because it's
effort-based, not IQ-based. Right?
There's nothing like And if you back to
that whole correlation, it's just, you
know, there's no concept in US Common
Core through the eighth grade that
everybody can't understand.
Right? It's built that way. So, it's
just a matter of do if and if you're
having trouble, it's usually because you
don't have the pre-reqs.
Right? And that's all and that's the
difference between a time-based teacher
in front of the classroom model and a
mastery-based AI tutor.
Well, it it's interesting cuz as you're
saying that, it strikes me that part of
the problem is for a a teacher in a
normal classroom
uh who's standing at the front of the
room and teaching, let's say, grade
sevens, you have grade sevens who are,
you know, effectively in the 1% of each
you have the 99th percentile and you
have the 1% tile. And you have teach,
not only do you have to teach to that
classroom and try to keep everybody's
attention, which sounds impossible. I
have a ton of empathy for teachers.
Correct. On the flip side, you're
supposed to be teaching grade seven, but
the student that we you just like said
this, well, they passed grade three, but
grade four or five, you know, they only
got 70. So, they have gaps in their
knowledge that you're not and and
everything is so cumu- especially with
math and reading and All knowledge. it's
cumulative. Like so, if you can't do
that, you're going to fail in high
school. You're going to hate math by the
time you get to high school, but it's
cuz you didn't learn something in fifth
grade.
That's 100% of the problem, which is
you have holes in your knowledge and
knowledge is cumulative. And so, when
you start slowing down, it's because of
your pre-reqs. And the system is set up
the teacher, it's not there for Teachers
are awesome. Teacher in front of the
classroom is terrible, right? You have
to separate these two concepts and
that's one of the things yeah, parents,
we all sort of put them together, but
those they're two separate things. And
that's why everybody's trying to get
small class sizes, cuz you basically
want a teacher to give your kid
individualized lessons. I mean, for the
rich families who hire tutors after
school, all the tutor does is give them
the fourth and fifth grade lessons.
That's That's they're doing. It's
they're just going back and saying, "Oh,
you don't know fourth and fifth grade
literature." But you're a sixth grade
teacher, you have to hand out sixth
grade material. Like we we were working
with um
a school with bottom 10% kids.
Right? And you know, back to me being
new, I go with my first day to see the
sixth grade teacher teach. There's a
sixth grade teacher. And bottom 10% in
America means you can't read. You don't
know 7 * 8, right? And
you know, I I go into the classroom and
she's handing out sixth grade material.
Well, I'm like
You know that's You know that's going to
be ineffective.
>> read.
And that kid needs a first grade phonics
lesson. Yeah. Right? And that guy needs
a second grade math question, right? And
you can't But the teacher, they can't
sit here and every kid give them a
right? It's just that's not They're a
sixth grade teacher. There's actually
laws in state to various states that you
must teach at grade level. Like it's
illegal for a teacher not to teach at
grade level, right? Which is just
totally insane, right? And so you have
all these problems that are systemically
designed in the system.
And it's one now that parents, because
they're you know, and if you talk to
people, we've known this back to
learning science for 40 years there have
been papers written about how kids could
learn two, five, 10 times faster. But
they don't work in a teacher in front of
a classroom model. Bloom's two sigma,
which is a famous one and everybody
fights about it, but it's a good it's a
good paper, which is
you know, in This is when I was in high
school. It's like if you do
AI tu- not an AI tutor, a human tutor
with mastery base, you get two sigma
better performance. Okay. Right? Just
crazy better performance.
But you know, the problem with that
paper is you can't give everybody a
human tutor. Right.
>> Right? And then second, you also have to
enforce mastery, which is hard in a lot
of ways.
>> What does What does mastery mean?
>> Mastery means do do you know the
material cold?
Like think of Whenever I talk about
mastery, think about sports. Just move
to sports, which is if you're a point
guard and you're going down the court,
what percent of the time is the coach
going to let you lose the ball? Right.
Right? And whatever that number is is
master, right? Cuz it's not very often.
Right? Versus in academics, kid gets an
80%. You're like, oh, he seems to know
got to be, you know, in this thing.
Sometimes an A now, you know? And if a
if if point guard was losing ball 20% of
the time going down the court, the coach
would be like, master the basics. We're
not working on dunks. Right? We're not
working on new stuff. Right? We're going
to master the basics and you're going to
get up to 99.
Yeah. Yeah.
>> Whatever. And so, do you know it cold?
And there's a view though in a
time-based system that you're like,
look, it's time to move on. And we all
grew up in a non-mastery based system,
which is then as you don't have mastery,
um you know, the holes compound.
And then all of a sudden, the reason
like if you look at the learning curves
in the US, they start to slow down in
middle school and basically flatline at
high school. The average kid in the US,
like on this map score, this NWEA map,
there's a 300 point scale.
If you take I I can't remember the exact
number, um but if you take an eighth
grader,
they will go up one point by senior
year. The median, that's the median. One
point. Like they learn nothing in high
school.
>> That's four years.
>> Yeah, four years of learning nothing.
Now, your top 1% back to this inequality
kind of thing, the top 1% probably go up
six points a year.
Right? So, your top 1% kids are still
learning like this, but your median
person in the US is not learning in high
school. It's just There's no academic
learning going on. And that's why I
there's a pa- paper um
I'm trying to think you I think UC San
Diego, one of the top schools,
universities in our country, right? Uh
just published a paper that like 50% of
their freshmen
can't answer fifth grade questions.
Like back to holes and all this kind of
stuff. Like the fact of how bad it is.
It's like, you know, the the the
learning and the holes that are in the
system cuz once, you know, and the part
of what happened with COVID, you know,
everybody's waiting for the bounce back
on COVID. There's going to be no bounce
back on COVID cuz what happened, to your
point, was
the span. It used to be years ago,
"Okay, I'm a teacher and I'm a
sixth-grade teacher. I got this GT kid
who needs some seventh-grade material
and I got someone who's a little behind,
needs some fifth-grade material."
Post-COVID, you're like, now it's a
seven-year span. Yeah. Right? You have
people in middle school who can't read.
>> It's crazy.
>> you can't If you can't read, you can't
It's just a Going to school is a waste
of time. Yeah. Right? Unless, you know,
if you're not If you're in middle school
and you can't read, all that matters is
that somebody's teaching you to read.
And And everybody got uh socially
passed, too, right? So, it's like, "Oh,
you're another year older. Therefore,
instead of addressing the actual issue,
we're going to kick the can to somebody
else and we're going to start fresh with
Right. It's different. Well, and that's
And the the pressure I I totally feel.
If I was a I could not do the public
school job. I could not be a principal
at a public school cuz it is really
hard. Cuz the product you have is this
bundle,
right? And it's political and And it's
political and all. Just it's totally
impossible. And, you know, and you do.
You have So, there used to be rules that
you couldn't pass third grade if if you
couldn't read.
Right? And the problem is social
promotion where the you people are just
like, "Okay, you are going to
psychologically damage my kid if you
hold them back."
Right? And so, then you just promote
them to fourth grade for all these other
reasons with the concept of with this
concept of, "Oh, okay, someone's going
to teach them, right?" Yeah. But the
problem is the system The fourth-grade
teacher's not set up to teach
third-grade reading.
>> They stopped teaching reading in grade
three. Right? Because
K through three is learn to read Yeah.
And then fourth through 12, there's read
to learn.
Right? That's the flip point where
you're like, "Okay, I'm learning I'm
bootstrapping to learn how to read. And
then in fourth grade, you're like, okay,
we all know you read now, so now you're
going to learn social science and social
studies and you know, you're going to
get word problems on your math test cuz
you can read.
And if you can't if you miss that bar,
then all of a sudden you're all of a
sudden all this material and it's just,
you know, it could be it'd be like me
handing out Greek to you.
>> And then it's like a negative flywheel,
right? Like every year it gets worse and
worse. And then you probably feel like I
want to give up. There's nothing I can
do. So like why bother? Why try? And
then I'm disruptive to the class. I
start skipping class. You know, my life
takes a very different path and then
Exactly. Exactly. And it with a
mastery-based AI tutor, you can go to
those kids,
right? And just say, I'll make sure you
get the third grade phonics.
>> So explain the mastery-based AI tutor.
It's basically like, okay, we're going
to start everybody's going to start in
sixth grade. We're going to figure out
what you're strong at, what you're weak
at, and then we're going to go teach you
the things you don't know. Uh and we're
we're going to maybe not get you ahead
in the things that you do until we've
caught up in the things that you don't
know. Yeah. So you should think, But you
don't know we're teaching you a third
grade level, so there's like no social
stigma to it either. Yeah.
>> Correct. So you just think about, you
know, the back to learning science.
There's 10,000 papers written about
learning science about how kids can
learn better. The zone of proximal
development, like give them questions
where they're getting them 80 to 85%
correct. Where if it's like 99, they're
not learning cuz they already know it.
If you get down to 50, like they
disengage cuz it's too hard. Yeah. So
you want this great zone every video
game developer you know, right? Knows
this. Keep the kid engaged. And so you
what you really want in a perfect world,
you know, and sort of what is imagine
an a AI tutor, an app, whatever you want
to call it, giving your kid an unending
stream of questions at 80 to 85%
accuracy, right? Where if it gets
harder, they're going to
turn it up down. And it's going to be
and think of the knowledge graph of
everything they need to know. Here's the
third grade curriculum. You can ask AI
tutors are good at figuring out what you
know and don't know, right? Assessments
or tests, right? And so you can just
have the kid take a test and be like,
"Oh, you don't know this stuff over
here. Let's give you these lessons until
you know it."
Right? And then you can then once you
know it, we'll move you on to the next
grade. Same thing at the next grade and
just keep progressing you up at whatever
rate you go at, right? And this is the
but the here's the part that's just
crazy town.
Kids can learn 10 times faster.
So if you take like just here's a metric
for you.
Our subjects
like take seventh grade science.
In a normal standard school
you have 180 school days. Yeah. So an
hour a day. Maybe some homework.
Couple hundred hours, right?
The average kid in our system with
Timeback, which is our our app,
learns it in 22 hours to mastery.
To mastery.
Math, science, right? Between 20 and 30
hours for If you're thinking K through
8, you should think between 20 and 30
hours per grade level per subject.
That means you can basically be done
school in September like based on the
current model.
>> If you were going to Now, part of the
problem is if you put kids in it 6 hours
a day, they're going to disengage and
we'll talk about why we designed the 2
hours and how we came up with that. Um
but the material's just not that much
and that's why our kids can do 2x,
right? Cuz everybody's like, "Ah, it's
just too much to know." And you're like,
"It's really not that much and when you
get it, right?" Um you know, for parents
yeah, anybody who's looking, you should
go There's a There's a great math app
out there called Math Academy.
They wrote a 500-page book that you can
download. Justin wrote it. That goes
through all the learning science. They
also publish how many hours it takes.
Their Their app, I think, starts in
fourth grade.
Um you know, but from how long fourth
grade math, fifth grade math, sixth
grade math, right? And
it's I mean, it literally is. It's like
28 hours and 22 hours. And just not many
hours to master material at these
subject levels. And so that, when you
talk about the unlock, it's just, you
know, when you say, "Why do kids?" And
we we you know, think of your kid, you
know, where
he's bored out of his mind in school.
Yeah. We waste 90% of their time. Like
we know that teacher in front of the
classroom is the least effective way to
teach.
You know, you can argue whether it's 5%
retention. But literally, we're wasting
90% of the kids' time cuz we're teaching
them in a very ineffective manner. Now,
back to thing. We didn't have a better
way for the last 40 years. You're like,
you know, if you're head of you're like,
you know, school,
you got to have a teacher in front of a
classroom cuz I can't give everybody a
tutor, right? And so, there was nothing
better. So, let's not just tell
everybody like, "You could learn 10
times faster, but sorry." Now, now
there's no excuse for it. We can get
everybody learning that fast. And I
guess the the hitch is like, "Oh, we've
always done it this way." So, there's an
inversion. And then you're starting
something from scratch, you're like,
"Well, I have no sunk costs in the way
that teaching should be. So, I can
experiment with something different."
And hey, these results are off the
charts and we're crushing everybody
else. Look here, we should all be doing
this. So, why aren't more public schools
reaching into this and going like, "We
should be experimenting with this even
in one subject. If we don't do it for
everything, maybe math class looks like
Synthesis or Math Academy or something
like that, where you're using an
AI-based learning system instead of a
teacher." Why don't they do that?
Um
it's really hard to change the system,
right? Which is the first off
First off, nobody believes right? You
So, the first thing you do when you look
at Alpha, right? And see our results, is
you're like, "Selection effects. It's
only rich kids and that's it."
Um and so, you you sort of reject it and
don't seriously consider it.
Um
but even in places that do, there's a
lot of high-end private schools who
their largest donors
are like, "I want my kid to have this
2-hour learning. Go take a beating."
Right? So, I I spend my time like there
I definitely do. I've met a lot of
boards and heads of school of the top
schools in this country, private schools
who charge, you know, $50,000,
and they really struggle
to sort of believe that this works
because
fundamentally, learning science, this
concept learning science, they're not
trained in it. They haven't read the
10,000 papers. They haven't built and
seen it. They don't know the worlds They
don't have a team like we do of seven of
the 10 best learning scientists in the
country working on it.
Right? Who have all these unlocks and
they definitely don't have the data loop
that we
Like we know cuz we measure every single
thing how long the kid took to do it and
what the scores are and what are the
results and, you know, that whole closed
loop. And so, there's just massive
skepticism,
you know, around it. And they're, you
know, it's a classic disruptive problem
of I wonder if I'm less skeptical by
default because my kids grew up playing
Prodigy and I watched how much of an
impact that had on their math skills and
actually more importantly, their love of
math. Yeah. Like they they loved playing
that game and you had to answer
questions to like cast spells and stuff
and Yeah.
There's a There's a group of people and
those are our early adopters, right? Who
comes to an Alpha? It's going to be, you
know, families like yours. We call them
founding families,
you know, because they're like, I I
think I've seen enough. Home school
families, like if you ask the average
home school family, they know 2 hours is
all you need. There's actually two
groups.
That's all they've ever done. There's
two groups actually, um when you talk
about who believes the two hours versus
not traditional school just doesn't
believe it. They just they just don't
believe it. The people who do homeschool
people absolutely believe in it.
Whatever. They're their view is why why
is Alpha so expensive cuz I do
homeschool. Yeah, yeah, I did the same
thing. Yeah, and so and and absolutely
the other group actually is athletes
which is IMG.
Which is our head of high school
actually came he used to run academics
at IMG because it for big time athletes
like at IMG you do the academics in the
morning you play sports all after.
Right? And that's why our sports academy
is all is being designed is just they
know it too. Yeah. Cuz that's how they
catch up. Right? Cuz they got all this
time already used. And so so there is a
a small set of group of people. There's
others so you know if you
you know talk there's a couple you know
real experts of learning science. You
know, Dean Schwartz who runs Stanford
School of Education. He's published a
book on learning science. You know,
>> we know like about learning that so so
AI customized
um I want to get into like how you know
kids are doing effective behaviors
versus ineffective behaviors. But like
what do we know about teaching them
through AI? Like what makes like I'm not
just giving you a same math lesson that
I would give somebody else. You know?
Yeah, so it's well, it's it's important
that more important than the AI is the
learning science. Like if I had to pick
the two but it's the combination that
you get really online.
>> So how do they earn But let's let me be
clear let's let's dive into what what I
don't mean by AI.
Chatbots is I am not talking. Our school
does not teach people by giving them
chat GPT.
Chatbots are cheatbots. 90% of kids who
are using chatbots for academics
are cheating
and not learning.
And you know, in our schools, you know,
we do the academics in the morning and
then we do all these great life skills
in the afternoon.
And you know, for that world we say if
you're using a chatbot in the morning,
you're probably cheating. And if you're
not using it in the afternoon for your
life skills and all that stuff, you're
probably failing. So, AI needs to be
Chatbots have a use, just not on the
academic side. Now, how we use AI in the
morning to teach is
what AI it's the generative AI part, not
the chat part. It's we generate
personalized lessons for every kid.
Right? That's the part. And so, imagine
if you had an LLM and you fed it the
following. You fed it the curriculum
you're trying to teach.
Right? You fed it the kids' knowledge
graph. What do they know and what do
they not know? You also feed it the
kids' interest graph.
What do they like? Oh, they like
baseball. Cuz then, right, one of the
fastest ways to learn is analogies,
right? Back to engagement. If I'm
teaching you in something you love and
that you're good at, you learn both
faster and more engaged. It's sort of a
combo effect. Uh and then there's a
fourth one, which is we're adding it
it's it's not in our current one, but it
will be in '26,
which is cognitive load theory, which is
a whole set of learning science of how
your brain works. And you should think
your brain's like a chip, a register,
where you have these working memory
slots. You have a certain And everybody
has a certain different number.
And so, you know, you have four working
memory slots. And then you every person
needs a different number of reps to take
something from short-term memory and put
it into long-term memory. Think of How
many times do you have to look at a
flash card? An easy way. But each
person's different. But you could
imagine an LLM that sits on top of all
that data and generates the perfect next
next lesson for you. Right? And so,
that's that's where we use the
generative AI, not to have kids do a
Socratic, you know, tutoring thing. Cuz
they're just You're instead saying, "I'm
going to generate a perfect lesson." And
those lessons are all based on learning
science. So, I'm going to make sure that
they're engaging and not passive. Right?
It's going to be a worked example in
math, because that's actually the best
way to teach kids. You know, I'm going
to be measuring if it's too hard.
If it's, you know, and you get it wrong,
I'm going to go back, you know, and I
can tell from the other questions, you
know, if even if it's multiple choice,
the AI is going to make them so that if
I'm unsure if you really know it, I'm
going to put some questions in there
that'll tell me whether you know that
prior knowledge or you don't. Right? All
of those things are all baked into what
we're generating and creating as a
lesson. You know, we can do it as a
video, right, with text and audio
overlay, right, make sure it's short, so
it's not, you know, passive into
engagement. So, we can do all that as
generating those lessons. And that's
that's the key to the unlock. And you
might be getting that second grade
lesson. Yeah. And I'm getting the first
grade lesson, you know, cuz we're in the
same class cuz the AI is just giving us
whatever we need. Or maybe you probably
need the 12th grade lesson. And I need
the I need the first grade lesson. Um,
but you know, it's it it's it's
generating that. Now, the second So,
that's one element, and then there's a
second element, and this is actually the
most expensive part of our AI. And one
of our limitations right now is we burn
a lot of
AI. Um,
10,000 bucks a kid right now. And we'll
get it down to less than a thousand and
then a hundred. We're We're driving it
down, but think of basically streaming
the screen
to a soda model, to a one of the best
ones.
And having And then we have set up
things up to prompt the kid
how to learn. It coaches. It's a coach.
So, it's like,
"Look, kid,
you're skipping those videos.
You keep skipping the videos,
right? You're not learning as effe- as
effectively as you could." Yeah. And so,
literally in the bottom of the corner,
there's a little waste meter
where it tells the kid, "You're wasting
time."
And so, this is back to the whole
product design you have to do, Right.
>> where, you know, when we Our product
name is Timeback. The most The most
important part to educate a kid is
motivating. Yeah. So, to educate a kid,
every educator will tell you, you need a
motivated student, and you need to put
them in lessons of the correct
difficulty.
Now, AI does that second part well. It
knows what you know and don't know, and
I'll give you second grade or fourth
grade. It'll put them in the the right
difficulty. But, how do you solve
motivation? Yeah. Right? How do you
solve motivation? So, on my first week
as principal, you know, I have to make
the kids love school.
And so, I went up to the fifth graders,
and they were brand new to school, too.
I was like, "Do you love school?"
They're like, "No."
And I was like, "What would make you
love school?" And they're like, "Less
school."
I'm like, "How much less?" And they're
like, "None." And I'm like, "Okay,
that's right." And we basically
negotiated 2 hours. I was like, "Look,
if I Would you engage in the apps?" Cuz
I need you to engage in the app. If you
don't engage and you're spinning your
chair, you're not going to learn.
"Would you engage for 2 hours if I gave
you the 4 hours back to go do awesome
stuff?"
And they're like, "Okay, that seems
pretty fair." And I went to my team. I
was like, "Great, we got 2 hours."
Right? Let's get every learning science
paper. Let's read the crap out of them.
Let's figure out exactly what we need to
do so they can learn all the material in
2 hours.
Right? And so, that's sort of the design
of how we got the engine and the waste
meter. So, for if you're a student
and when you first come in, you're sort
of screwing around and you're not really
engaged. And so, all of a sudden, your
2-hour learning's 3-hour learning.
And you're like, "Whoa, whoa, whoa. I
thought this was 2-hour learning." And
you're like, "Your waste meter is at
50%."
You're wasting 50% of your time, dude.
Right. And then all of a sudden, it's
like, "Well, go change these behaviors
and you'll get out of here in 2 hours."
So, the unlock is like at the sports
academy, right? It's a little meter
and they have to be in the lessons until
it goes green. Yeah. And then they get
to go play basketball or soccer or
whatever. You know what the sport is
that the kids killed it. And their coach
The coach is like, "Guys, stop screwing
around. Like, get it done so we can all
go play." Yeah. And their friends are
playing. And so all of a sudden you have
motivation. Yeah. Where they want to go
do what they want to do. They just have
to And it's not hard cuz we keep them at
80 to 85%. Yeah. They just can't screw
around. Stop wait just use effective
techniques. Every kid like they scroll,
you know, if they have a lesson they're
trying to read. Yeah. They scroll to the
bottom, look for some questions, search,
you know, they try to skip reading the
article. And you're like, "Look, you got
You actually have to read the article if
you want to learn how to read." Yeah.
You know, and and you know, we also now
can generate the article so they're
interested. Back to engagement, interest
levels. You can take that second, third
grade boys like, "I hate books."
And then you're like, "No, no, no.
What's your favorite movie? The
Avengers? Who are your buddies?" And all
of a sudden you're doing a choose your
own adventure where you and your buddies
are saving the world. And that kid'll
click page by page for an hour.
>> Yeah. And you keep the Lexile level
right within 10% of his difficulty level
so he's he doesn't it's not too hard.
You can funnel new vocabulary words to
them, right? All these kind of things
where you can these these AI tutors when
you solve the motivation problem can
fill these kids' heads with awesome
knowledge, right? And you know, one of
our design principles is we we're given
12 years, right? Parents give us 12
years to fill their kids' heads with
awesome knowledge cuz we we think
we should make kids' heads
an interesting place to hang out in.
Because they have to hang out there for
the rest of their life. Right. Right?
And that's where we've we've reserved as
societies, right? This amount of time.
And it is great to fill it up. And the
kids actually are engaged and if it is
interesting and applicable, right? They
do like it. And then there's also just a
learning science concept that the more
you know, the faster you learn. So
acceleration curves like where the
average American in a time-based system,
right? Or it's not even American, global
slows down. Yeah. Ours accelerate. Like
if you actually took our high school
kids, Yeah. right? And said measure them
on how fast they're learning versus 2x,
one because the denominator is going way
down cuz the other kids aren't learning,
but also how much our kids learn, right?
We'd be like we have we'd be at 5 to 10x
like at high school cuz it's sort of you
have this effect going, right? And
that's why you can see some tweets I did
where I have all these kids like 790,
790, 790 math, 800 math as SAT. You
know, and it's it's it's all very
doable. And it's just you and I in our
world are like this all sounds like
magic and hocus pocus and all that
stuff. And that's what sort of my job
now is and why we're getting it out and
opening the Alphas and getting this
everywhere is we have to educate
everybody that this is possible. Like,
you know, if if
you know, if I to your if I was if you
have a parent in your audience and
there's three things that I could put in
their brain, right? That they don't
believe today. Like with their if they
have a kid in school,
I need them to think A not B, right? A
is
your kid can love school, must love
school. Like more than vacation. That
should be the standard you hold, right?
Second, they can crush crush their
academics in just 2 hours a day.
This 6 hours a day and homework, it's
not necessary,
right? We have the highest test scores
in the freaking country. 2 hours a day.
Right? If you're going to go more than
that, it's cuz you have to really catch
up cuz you're behind.
Right? And whoa, okay, you got to do
three to catch up, you know, 2 hours a
day, crush it.
And then third is the key to your
child's happiness is high standards,
right? And that is one that, you know,
it's a hard one cuz I I struggle with it
as a parent too. I have two daughters,
right? And you know, you want to hold
high standards, but when they're
struggling, it's hard, right? But that
the standards is why our kids love
school so much. Talk to me more about
the high standards part of it.
>> Yeah. So, generally, you know, if you're
trying to build a school around
that they love, there's this view of,
"Oh, just let them play all day." Right?
But that's actually not going to make
them want to come during the summer,
right? They have to be working on things
that are ambitious, right? And
significant
to be able to do that. If they're just
scrolling Tik Tok or playing Fortnite,
they're not going to come. Right? They
can do that at home. Yeah. Right? Kids
want to do awesome stuff. They do.
Right? Kids are awesome and they want to
do awesome stuff, and we need to give
them an environment. And we start in
kindergarten. Like our our
kindergartners, like here's the you
know, the thing that freaks everybody
out.
Right? And we do this like on a shadow
day cuz we have we're like, "Come test
it." Right? No one's going to just drop
their kid in this weird thing. Come test
it. And so we do a shadow day, and one
of the things we do is like we have a
40-ft rock wall
for kindergartners. And parents are
like, "Oh, my kid's
Right? That seems scary. I'm a
kindergarten. And it's all safe. It's I
mean, they're all right in Harnessed in?
Harnessed in and stuff. But and you
know, we teach the kids growth mindset,
right? And they can And then you mic
them up, you know, they're climbing up,
and they're like halfway up, and they
start to struggle, and you can see the
parents. But our guides, right? Our
guides and coaches, who this is what
they do all day, right? Our guides and
coaches, their whole job, when you say,
"What's the different role of the
teacher?" cuz we don't sit in front of
the classroom, think of a mentor who's
going to guide and coach you.
And their job is to hold high standards,
but give you high support. Mhm. Right?
To help coach you through it, just like
a great coach. And then they'll see the
kid get to the top. And when they that
kid gets down, they're beaming.
They're beaming because they
accomplished something hard. Yeah.
Right? And every child development
expert in the world will say the
struggle, the the the cycle of you need
to struggle and fail.
I add in as a principal, sometimes cry.
Yeah. On your road to success, supported
by a caring adult. That loop is what
child development is. Right? And it
builds self-confidence. It builds
resilience, right? It's what why people
50% of America puts their kids in
after-school sports because everybody
expects that cycle to be run in sports.
But in schools, it's just not run.
Right? And we're like, every kid needs
this, right? It shouldn't just be in
sports. We should just They want to go
to do hard things. And so like, we start
in kindergarten, but we'll talk middle
school is like when we talk about middle
school.
You know, we have a middle school
epidemic of scrollers, consu- what we
call consumers, right? They've been
caught in the dopamine Tik Tok or the
Fortnite playing Yeah. right? Loops. And
they're just not engaged, right? And so
when you come when you move into an
middle school, we run a program, right?
Which is well, what what what what are
you interested in, right? How are we
going to engage or how we going to get
you out of that?
And you know, as a society, we create a
world where all those kids sort of get
stuck in it.
So we do a values chart, a Japanese
Ikigai, right? Think of a vision board,
you know, fifth or sixth grade, where
you're just like, who do you want to be?
And if you ask all these kids, they want
to do awesome stuff.
>> Yeah. They want to do awesome stuff and
they diagram it out, right? And it's
just like, I want to be this. And it's
awesome.
Right? And then you say, okay, we make
them do 168-hour project. Track every
hour of your week.
And then they're like, oh.
And then cuz you are what you do, you
are what you do. And so literally they
then come in and they're like, oh, I
guess I'm going to be the world's best
Tik Tok scroller. And they're just so
disappointed cuz they realize this is
who they want to be, but this is what
they're doing. This is how I'm spending
my time.
>> Yeah. And I'm just like, well, that's
our job as a school, right? Our guidance
counselors, this is what because you're
not spending all your day in academics,
we have afternoon workshops where
they're able to go figure out their
passion project where they can get out
of it. You You know, and
I I
why the world has to change and why
everybody wants to change education is
cuz we have too many people. There was a
kid who came in and he was talking to
our high school cuz he went through our
program, but he was talking to the the
next set.
And he's just like, you know,
if you had told me like when I first
started, you know, the the whole
program,
and said, "I'll pay you $100 an hour for
the rest of your life to play video
games and just till you're dead."
And like literally just like plug into
the matrix. He's like, "I would have
sold my soul for that."
And he's like, "And then I went through
the program." And he's like, "Now, I
don't even have time to play video
games."
Right? And he's like cuz he's engaged on
stuff of who he wants to go be, right?
And that's what's happening to a lot of
our kids, right? In society. And then
you totally can break them out. Right?
But that's what we have to do as a
school. And back to high standards, the
kids want to do it cuz it's hard. That
guy kid has never worked harder.
Right? On that project that he's doing
that's transformed him to pull him out
of the video game, you know, loop.
And the kids want to do it. We have, you
know, our second graders,
you know, our our afternoons are all
these great project-based workshops that
teach life skills. Right? And our life
skills are leadership and teamwork,
storytelling and public speaking,
grit and hard work, entrepreneurship and
financial literacy, and socialization
and relationship building. So, there's
five categories of those.
And you know, our our second uh
second grade teacher, right? Faith. This
was a year ago. She's like,
"All my second graders can run a 5K."
And I was like,
"Oh, I don't that" She's like, "Kids are
limitless."
I'm like, "Oh." Cuz parents, right? Back
to the standards, you don't want to see
your kid fail. Parents naturally it's
right protective. You don't want to see
them struggle and fail. Like all the are
going to really not like this. She's
like, "Don't worry."
And I'm like, "How you going to get them
to run a 5K, first of all?" She's like,
"We're going to teach atomic habits."
And, you know, most of us as adults read
it at what, 25 or whatever, you know,
after college.
But, she's like, "Sixth graders
understand 1% better every day." They
do.
And so, she gets all the kids, you know,
we teach growth mindset, right? And so,
she's like, "How many of you think it's
impossible?" And all the kids are like,
"Oh, it's impossible, Ms. Faith, you
know, can't do it." And she's like,
"Well, I signed you up for the Jingle 5K
at Christmas." This is in August.
"Signed you guys all up. You got to go
run it." And she brings them out to the
track and they're all, "Oh, this is
impossible." And she walks the track the
first day with them all. And every
single one finishes.
And she's like, "Okay, so, we've all
established we're all going to finish
the race, right?" And then she comes out
the next time and they run a quarter of
the lap, walk the rest.
And half a lap, walk the rest, every
time. And by December, they're all
running 35-minute 5Ks. And when they
cross the finish line, you know, at the
Jingle 5K to their parents, Parents,
they're just like, "Oh, look at them."
>> They're like, "Dad, I can do anything."
Yeah.
"Cuz I can just 1% better every day. I
can do 50 push-ups. I'll do one today,
two tomorrow, right?" And they just
learn these life skills that we don't
learn till late, cuz school doesn't
teach them, but when you have all day,
when you're not sitting in class, you
can teach these things. And you teach it
via hard things that the kids love.
Right? That they're engaged in doing
things that they think are impossible
and learning how to do the impossible.
It sounds like guides and teachers are
very different. What makes for a good
guide? Yeah. So, teach, you know, when I
think of a spec, you know, we have
there's a huge teacher problem, right?
Teachers are burned out, they can't hire
enough, you know, it's just it's it's
tough, right? Um,
you know, and just once again, me coming
from the outside, right? General HR,
you know, HR 101, if I'm a business
person,
you know, okay, you can't hire a spec,
you know, what's the problem? Either the
spec's too hard, you're not paying
enough, whatever, you're targeting the
wrong one. So, there's five things
really if you're going to be a teacher
in a standard school, right? Standard
teacher in front of a classroom model to
do well.
First, you have to be a domain expert in
seventh grade science.
Second, you actually have to be a good
at teaching. Like, what are the
effective teaching? We all know
researchers who know a lot but they're
really bad teachers.
Right? Third, you have to connect and
motivate with kids.
Fourth, you have to deal with parents.
And then fifth, in a lot of our schools,
you have a lot of administration and you
know,
school systems.
And those are five hard things to be
good at, right? And so, when you have a
hard spec, then we go and say, "Okay,
let's underpay them."
And you're like, and it's a surprise
that no one applies for the jobs, right?
And that's why there's huge to fall out
on all this stuff. And so, in our world,
I'm like, "Okay, well, how would I fix
that, right?" We're re-envisioning
school. So, what how do we re-envision
the role of a teacher?
Well, we take, you know, we What do
teachers really want to do?
Right? And if you go talk to teachers.
Teachers did not become teachers to
grade seventh grade science quizzes.
They became teachers to trick connect
and transform kids' lives. And we all
had one or two teachers who did that for
us. And they And it wasn't cuz she
marked your paper up well. It was
because she connected with you and got
you to go see a bigger picture. Right?
And just inspired you to greatness.
And pushed you.
Right? And that is what great teachers
do and that's what they want to do. So,
we just narrowed the scope where we're
like, "Nope, you don't You don't need to
know seventh grade science because
AI does that. You don't have to know the
10,000 pay papers that are written on
learning science of how to teach kids
well and all that stuff. AI tutor, they
learning science based will do that.
Connect and motivate kids, okay, you
need to be the world's best. Are you the
best at connecting and motivating kids?
Can you hold high standards and high
support? Right? And if you're great on
that, we want to hire you.
And then the parent side, we actually
have a dean of parents. So, we designed
the school where they don't have to do
that.
Because I when I first got in, the guy
who was going through the the teachers
is like, "Oh, this this teacher is great
with kids, but not good with the
parents, so don't promote.
This person is not as good with the
kids, but they're great with parents, so
they should be promoted."
And I was like, "Okay, no. I'm going to
We're going to build a school where the
kid They're great with kids, and we'll
find a way to deal with the parents,
right?" Cuz they're different skills.
Yeah. Um and then And then more
important skill is the kids.
>> No, all you care about is the kids. I
mean, I'm parents, obviously. Wish they
were good about it, but you really care
that these kids connect, right? That
these guides connect with your kids. And
we call them guides and coaches because
they're not doing academic teaching.
Right? So, what's their background? Is
it like coaching in sports, or is it
like
>> a set of a one, they're the best We get
the top 1% of teachers who want to move
over and, you know, come on over. So, we
get those, and we're just like, "You're
not going to be a teacher." And, you
know, that's always the biggest
surprise. They're like, "This is what I
want to do all day." During those 2
hours,
you know, since you're not in front of
class, they're pulling the kids out
one-on-one, you know, "Hey, What do
those conversations look like?
>> So, those conversations are going to be
like, you know, back to connecting.
"Hey, how was your weekend? How was the
softball tournament? Did you win? Did
you not win?
You know, we've been working on this
goal setting about your, you know,
vision.
You don't seem to be engaging in it. Is
Do you really not like it? Is it too
hard?" You know, they connect with the
kids, and then sit there and help them
understand, you know,
uh what are you trying to do? How am I
helping you hit your goals? Just what
you would call coaching. It's absolute
coaching. So, how much of the kids'
success then would you describe to I
don't want to disappoint this person
who's now paying attention to me? Versus
like if you go into a
classroom of 30 kids, it's like, "I can
get away with almost anything, you know,
I can like sort of like check in a
little bit." But now this person knows
my name, they know what I'm doing on the
weekend, they I'm going to get questions
on this. Yeah, no, there's I mean, our
guides have great relationships with the
kids. I mean, if you really want to get
into it, like at high school, when we we
ask quite we measure everything cuz if
we're going to scale, I need the metrics
to make sure the quality stays high.
You know, so in in middle and high
school,
we actually ask the parents,
"Do you trust your Alpha guide so much
to hold high standards
so you as the parent can provide can
only have to provide the unconditional
love and support?"
Right? Cuz you want to hold high
standards, but you also want to provide
support. And as kids get to adolescence,
it gets hard for a parent to be both.
When you're holding high standards, they
rebel against you, right?
>> Yep. And I'll just take myself as a
personal example. So, my oldest
daughter, you know, she's putting her
Stanford application in.
And I'm like, "Can I read it?" And she's
like, "No." Right? She does not want to
be judged by parents. Pay kids,
adolescents do not want parents judging
on them.
And I was like, "Okay." And I just gave
her a hug. I'm like, "Good luck."
Because I knew Chloe, her guide,
was going to hold high standards. And
you know, Chloe, back to we get really
the best in the world, right? She's a
Harvard grad. And I I know she knows the
standard, you know, to get in. And
Kate, my daughter, has a great such a
relationship with Chloe, she trusts her.
Yeah. And she trusts her to get her in,
right? And you know, even now, she's in
college. And when she comes back to to
Austin, she goes to lunch with Chloe
still. That's right? So, she has You
build these great relationships with
with them. And it's You know, the
Everybody when they think of AI tutor,
they think of robot terminators and all
that. And the answer is, you know, in 20
years,
you know, predict the future, what's
going to be the same in 20 years?
Parents are going to drop their kids off
at a building.
In the building are going to be other
kids and adults.
Right? There's we're not you're not
getting rid of school. School is going
to be there. Now, if we do our job is
what happens in those six or seven hours
is totally different. And the roles are
different and it's 10 times more
awesome. But you're going to drop your
kid off at school cuz you want them
around other kids and you need kids
don't grow up on their own. They need
caring adults who are going to mentor
and coach them, right? And help, you
know, uh build whole high standards. And
so that whole loop is is going to
continue and when we talk about building
schools, that's going to be the future.
It's just right now the whole day is six
hours in class,
right? In this where we waste 90% of the
kids' time and we're like, "Okay, let's
just stop that."
Let's just stop that, right? And so
that's what back to our thing of how we
design school. The first part was, you
know, they must love it. The second part
was they need to learn 10 times faster.
They can't sit in class all day, right?
And so that's this engine we built that
teaches kids 10 times faster. That's the
time back. That's time back, our time
back engine that's 10 and today it's at
Alpha, you know, in 2026 everybody in
the world's going to be able to access
it. And so everybody who wants to build
a school based on time back is going to
be able to next year.
Um
You hear that development team?
The whole world's waiting on this thing.
>> kids My kids are waiting. Everybody's
waiting for that. So that's the second
part, the time back, right? The engine
where they learn 10 times faster. The
third is
there's a set of life skills that we
think really matter to kids that aren't
just pure academics. And we went through
them, but you do care about leadership
and teamwork and entrepreneurship and
financial socialization and relationship
building. Those skills, socialization
and relationship building, right? They
matter so much and we don't teach kids.
Now, you experience socialization in
school. Some good, some bad, right? If
you're at Westlake High School and
you're the quarterback and the
homecoming queen, it's really great,
Yeah.
>> right? Yeah, yeah. Right? You mean girl
high school right Cafeteria, there's
tons of movies made about it, right? But
you can teach kids skills, right? You
can teach them all these relationships
>> the life skills? Are you doing anything
different there than we would think?
>> You would You would think these great
project-based workshops in the afternoon
to teach these skills. So, we're like,
"Okay, how do we teach 1% better? How do
we teach atomic habits?" Like, "Okay,
let's have them run a, you know, 5K."
Uh, you know, we teach financial
literacy. It really is like our fifth
and sixth graders launching food trucks,
running Airbnbs,
right? And so, you can teach them when
you have all afternoon, you have all
this time to teach them. Now, the
biggest thing we do versus probably most
others
is we try to quantify everything.
A lot of life skills are very soft.
>> Right? And that I I can't run a scalable
system if everything's, "Hey, you know,
maybe it works." So, like, we talk grit.
Everybody wants their kid to, you know,
have grit, right?
You can't read like Angela Duckworth's
book and okay, grit, right? That doesn't
mean anything. So, every third grader in
our school can do a Rubik's Cube.
Every kindergartner can do a 100-piece
puzzle.
And so, we, right? Every eighth grader
has passed a teamwork grit test, which
is they all run a Tough Mudder, if you
know what Tough Mudders are.
>> Tough Mudder and pass cross the finish
line at the same time. Oh.
>> Right?
>> That's awesome. And and, you know, and
back to bonding and hard things, you
know, and parents back to
they're like, you know, and especially
at a high-end private school, some of
these moms are like, "My daughter's not
rolling in the mud. That's never
happening, right?" And then at the end
of the race, they're all covered in mud
and, you know, there's they have all the
pictures of they all, you know, bonded
as a team to go through this really hard
challenge. Um, and so, you're teaching
So, we have metrics where and we try to
make them quantifiable. All our fifth
graders, fourth and fifth graders can
pass Wharton's um
leadership and teamwork simulation
challenge that Wharton MBAs take.
Amazing.
>> Right? And so we have all these, you
know, quantifiable metrics across those
skills, right? Entrepreneurship, can you
make a thousand dollars? Can you go
raise ten thousand dollars? You know,
all those kind of things.
You know, character building, which is
character building is always the hardest
one cuz it's really hard to measure. But
it's the only thing parents care about,
is my kid a good kid, right? But like
our example, we just we have examples,
which is our we have middle and high
schoolers who are building an app
where they're trying to convince a
hundred million teenagers the key to
their happiness is contributing to their
community. Mhm. Right? And just that
whole concept of how contributing to
your community is a great character
building exercise. They all have been
experiencing and they're like, oh, we
can build this into an app and get this
out to everybody. Yeah. So you have
people learning how to vibe code with
cursor, right? In their afternoons or
those are those are the kind of apps,
right? And they're working with some of
the biggest influencers on the planet to
to do this.
Right? Where they're like, okay, I'm I
want to come in this weekend or I right?
I don't want to go on summer break cuz
I'm working on something hard and
significant. The the hard thing is
really interesting. The when my kids
went back to school after COVID, I
switched schools and I put them in a
different language. So they didn't speak
it. They went to a French school and
that So for grade seven, they started
and they didn't speak very much French
at all.
And if I had to sum up the difference of
that school from the one they were in
previously, it would be high standards.
And it was they were consistently on the
kids and they would be like, no, you
should be getting a hundred. I'm going
to teach you how to get a hundred. And
it was, you know, small classes, but it
was a very strict old school French
school.
And I did that cuz I wanted my kids to
wake up. Like they were sort of like
sleepwalking through school a bit and I
was like, oh, well, you're going to go
learn a different language. And for
three months my oldest kid came home and
he was crying like almost every night.
This is so hard. Like I got the word
right. I'm like, but you missed the
accent. He's like, yeah, well, they give
me a zero. They should at least give me
like three quarters of a point. And I'm
like, well, you have a choice, right?
Like you they're telling you what the
standard is. You can choose to live up
to that and push yourself or you can
choose to fight it for the next 2 years.
And which of those do you think is going
to result in a better outcome. Anyway,
by the end of December, so they have
exams. They test the kids like crazy. So
these kids have never taken a test
before and by the time they're done
these 2 years, they've done over 200.
Uh so they just like there's no stigma
around testing or anything. By the end
of December, he's going into exams. He's
like, oh, I love this school. Like this
school's amazing. I know exactly what's
expected of me and I know exactly how to
accomplish what's expected of me.
Exactly. So I love that story. That is
Now, if every parent thought like you,
we would have a different school system
today. We would not have this academic
results
at our schools. One of the things I've
learned as principals is your mindset
that you just described is very rare.
That parents in general want low
standards at their school. And part of
why schools, even private schools,
right? React. Why does Harvard have
grade inflation? Yes. Harvard.
Right? And it's because there is
pressure from parents and students to
lower standards. Yeah. And that it is
hard to keep high standards.
>> the participation award that, you know,
everybody seems into these days.
>> And the problem with that is it doesn't
You know, when I Where it really starts
to manifest is in middle and high school
where you're like, these kids are
disengaged.
They are addicted to Tik Tok and
Fortnite and they have mental health
problems and all these issues that are
occurring and they're the outcome of low
standards, not high standards. People
think it's "No, it's too hard." If kids
don't engage, if humans don't engage in
challenging things, right? That they
love, that they can go do and
accomplish, right? They do lose meaning.
There is no meaning in a TikTok loop,
and eventually it catches up with you.
You just You can't eat sugar all day,
right? It's just Eventually it's going
to catch up with you. And instead,
right? We need schools where we show
kids
it can be so fun. Like, you know, if you
took out our core our first one, "Kids
must love school more than vacation."
Parents would not send their kids to the
school because they'd be terrified of
the high standards.
And it's only because their kids come
home every day and they're like, "This
was the greatest thing ever."
I don't like, you know, they do. They're
like, Parents are just like, "My kid
used to never Like, you know, these
middle school sports kids. They're like,
they used to skip school all the time,
never on time, all these things." All
absenteeism is a huge thing. They're
like, "They wake me up and they're like,
we better not be late." Yeah.
>> Like alpha kids are like "Is it Monday
yet?"
>> Yeah, I want to go to
>> Why do we have to go to school on week
Why don't we go to school on Saturdays?"
That's incredible.
>> And that's And that is one. There was
There was one where That those stories
are just They They do love doing hard
things. Totally.
>> And, you know
>> And they can do hard things.
>> can do hard things. They love it. They
have to be supported by an adult, so you
have to have a guide who's awesome. You
can't If you just throw them in the deep
end, that's not going to work, right?
But get a guide who's going to bond with
them, right? And we spend enough money,
right? Pay teachers, right? Just Let's
shrink Let's refocus their role around
what they want to do anyway. Transform
kids' lives, right? Let's get them all
focused on transforming kids' lives
where they're supporting them, high
standards, right? Exactly the one or two
that we knew,
right? That transformed ours. And just
get that going in all the schools. But
to do that, you know, back to it's it's
a tough one. Now, that's why we have to
go build We're going to go build 10,000
schools, right? We're You know, I'm in
the
>> to talk about scaling in a second. Yeah.
I should I do want to come back to my
son for a second. So, when he was coming
home crying, I was also very supportive.
I'm like, you could do hard things. I
don't want to be reported to child
services or anything like that. From
people listening, you know, this is me
and my life. No judgement about how you
raise your kids.
Totally. Uh the video monitoring thing
sounds super interesting. I want to come
back to this for a second. As a parent,
I'm like, this is amazing. You're
teaching my kids effective behaviors and
ineffective behaviors. As an employee,
I'm like, oh, wait, what?
>> Yeah.
Talk to me about that.
>> So, let's talk about the monitoring,
which is it's actually really
interesting, which is um
uh I just went through this with uh
some of our middle schoolers, which is
kids
like the monitoring and the coaching.
Cuz I want to get better. So do parents.
Parents don't like AI monitoring.
They're terrified of it. Oh. Right?
There's this boogeyman of AI monitoring.
Kids, they're like, I want a human to do
that, not an AI. The kids are like, I
don't want a human to look at me ever
because I'm judged by adults. Kids Kids
don't want to be judged by adults.
They're like, let me talk to the AI.
Yeah.
>> Like if you tell like we have an that
grades your public speaking
and you're like, do you want to practice
with the human to give you the feedback
or do you want to practice with Orai,
this app,
you know, till you get to 90% and it it
does, you know, filler words and you
know, pacing and all that. And they're
like, give me the Orai. Yeah, my kids
would 100% choose that.
>> They cuz they all want the AI cuz it's
not judgemental to them. They don't feel
all that pressure. Parents are the
opposite. And so it's this very dynamic
where I'm like, guys, I the kids want
this and I know you don't like it, but
you got to get over it cuz your kid
wants it and it's let's do what they
want. And so, the kids love the AI
tutoring, right? They love the feedback.
They love the monitoring. Okay, I'm
wasting time. How to do better?
Right? And now, the second part is if
you don't have a motivation
on the coaching. Like like on why they
should do it. Like I cuz I tell like
other school districts like great, I'm
going to go put this in my class. Let me
give me this time back stop thing and
get magic.
I'm like if you put this in a standard
school day of 6 hours, it's not going to
work. Like EdTech generally has failed.
And it's generally failed because the
kids aren't motivated to engage with it.
If you don't give them their time back,
they're not going to engage. And that's
why it might be part of the problem with
like normal schools adopting it. You
know, you're the principal of a school,
head of school, and you're like what am
I supposed to do? Like 2 hours a day and
they're not really teaching and what do
they do the rest of the day? It's a
whole re It's a It's a rebuild. Sounds
like a lot of work. It's a lot of work.
It's you know, and there's not enough
proof yet and you have a bunch of
parents who are like I don't want screen
time anyway. And so you have all these
good excuses to to slow it down. Now,
talk if you look at Alpha's like we're
the most talked about school in the
world, right? It's just give us one more
year.
Right? Give us one more year and
everybody's just going to be like okay,
we we need to do this stuff, right? And
so we're we're that's part of our job
and that's part of why I I I'm out there
is just educating parents, right? Our
schools educate kids, our marketing
department we have to educate parents
that this is all all doable. Um but
uh but that's that's when you look at
the sort of this whole loop is you know,
it's it it's hard to put it in a normal
school right now cuz you do have to do a
rebuild. They need more proof and data.
But why don't they maybe say we were
talking about this a little bit before
we started recording? Like why don't
they just say, oh, we're going to do
math tutoring. Uh we're just going to do
that. So math class now is going to be
an AI tutor whether uh you know,
whatever product that is and then we're
going to see how that goes. We don't
have to switch the whole curriculum.
We're just going to take that 30 minutes
or 40 minutes we've assigned to the
class. So there's there's few few
different reasons on that. Just pre
tactical practical reasons.
First is they've been lying to their
parents. So, I and I I don't know public
schools much, but let's talk about
high-end private schools, right? I know
the high-end private school market.
The high-end private schools are all
lying to their parents by giving kids
A's when they don't deserve them.
So, like we pulled in, you know, so we
had hundreds of kids join, you know,
whatever a couple months ago across the
country, right? And these are people
coming from 40, 50,000, 75,000 private
schools.
And we give them our assessment test.
Right? And if you had an A, if your
transcript was an A coming into Alpha,
you are from there's some students who
are one grade level ahead.
Super awesome.
All the way and more many more of them
were 3 years behind. Oh, what? 3 years
behind. So, this is seventh graders who
when we give them the fourth grade test
are missing a significant number of
problems.
If you got B's, you are from 3 years
behind to 7 years behind.
So, these are high schoolers who are
like, "Okay, I need to have you in third
grade."
There's third grade material you're
missing.
And that that's a B.
And so, the problem is parents in our
world A's and B's like A's are good, B's
okay, do better next time. But they
don't give out C's, D's, and F's
anymore. So, A's and B's have to cover
the whole range.
And so, parents basically are being lied
to because they're using their old point
of reference. 80% of kids at at Harvard
get A's. Just they've had such grade
inflation that the school is like, "Oh
my god, I can't do the AI tutor cuz it's
going to show the kid needs fourth grade
material."
And the parent doesn't know that.
And as soon as they put it in, it's
going to be obvious. The assessment's
going to show them.
Right? That's actually what causes lots
of people to move to Alpha. Yeah. Just
give them the assessment. They're like,
"What's going on?" Like if you go to our
website, we have testimonials of people,
you know, we opened San Francisco.
Right? And this guy's like, "I've had my
kid in a $50,000 school for 8 years."
And he couldn't answer some fourth and
fifth grade questions. It's not the
kid's fault.
Right? And the parent didn't know cuz
the school's giving him A's, it's good
brand.
Good brand thought he knew it.
Everything's working great.
>> Everything's fine. And so you have that,
that's number one.
Let's get over that one. Now let's get
to the second one.
There, and this I fought, like this was
at 100 for 100 we were talking about.
I went my first year to the seventh
graders and I'm like, "Guys, you have
holes.
I got to get you to do earlier work. You
got to some fourth and fifth grade
holes. You got to go fix it."
And let me tell you about motivating a
kid and making him love school when you
tell seventh grader they have fourth and
fifth grade material.
Non-starter. Non-starter. There's only
one person who hates it worse, their
parents.
Oh my god, I was yelled at so many times
by parents. "My kid must be a grade
level. Why are you putting him in
earlier stuff?" Every parent's been
trained, my kid must work at grade
level. Which is just the learning that
is not, right? They just don't know
learning science. That is not what the
learning science says, right? You got to
go back and fill, right? Mastery, the
basics, master the basics. But the
parents hate it. That's why eventually I
still to this day don't know how to fix
the parents. Like so I sort of went
around them. And that's when we came up
with 100 for 100. I'm like, "Guys, I got
to get you to do it."
And that's that's how it came out.
>> up, that's how it came out. I'm like,
third grade, they did it. Fourth grade,
and then and then they moved up.
Right? And that does it also has this
other real thing about academic
performance, the the self-confidence it
does. All these kids are like, "Okay, I
can get any I can get 100 on any
standardized test." Back like your son,
the same thing where once you show them
how to do it, you give them the ability,
they're like, "Oh, I can get 100." Like
so we always we have a thing now where
we'll advance you at 90% to the next
grade level.
So when you score 90% on a standardized
test, you know, your state standardized
test that shows you you have mastery,
we'll let you go to the grade above it.
But, you get a 100 for 100
if you get a 100. And so, all the kids
are like, okay, that's a couple extra
questions, right? And you're like, oh my
god, a couple in an hour or two, and
I'll get the extra questions. Cuz even
if you miss them, you can go back and
learn them and then and then retake.
And so, but it just sets that mindset of
every kid's like, of course I could get
a 100. The reason we get so many 790s
and 800s on the SAT is all our kids are
like, I like, of course I could get a
perfect score on the SAT. I just It's
just how many hours is it? It's an hour
question, not a capability, which is
that unlock we did about IQ. I I think
>> Most people think it's IQ, and I'm like,
it's effort. It's effort, not IQ. Well,
this is the the fundamental thing,
right? Because a lot of people just look
at that and they're like, some kids are
smarter than others. And I think we you
I think
my hypothesis is that we could get 90%
of kids, if not more, to effectively
perfect SAT scores. Totally. There's a
little SAT has a little bit of IQ
coding. I At any time test has a little
bit of IQ coding. But yes,
fundamentally, you should think 1350,
which is top 10%.
No problem. 1550, which is your top 1%.
It gets It It gets a little dicey on,
you know, what
>> Well, it's to 90% then, right?
>> for 90% for sure. Like just off the
charts. And we're Right, we measure all
this. We're like, well, how many can we
get to 1550 plus, right? If you're on
our honor our high school program,
non-honors is 1350 minimum.
Honors is 1550. And the difference is
it's 3 hours a day to do honors, which
is 1550 plus fives on your APs. Yeah.
1350 and a four or five on your AP, that
only takes 2 hours. So, it's just And to
kids, it's an effort issue. You want 2
hours, you want 3 hours. Just pick It's
extra time. That's it. Um And so, uh
But anyway, but that whole thing, you
you change their mindset. But back to
this this why a standard school can't do
it,
the kid How do you You have the parents
screaming at you if you try to put your
kid to do, you know, the the whole
filling, as we call it, right? To go
backward and do fourth grade. They're
like, I want the teacher to teach my kid
seventh grade. Cuz that's, you know, and
it's just So, you have that problem the
schools are just like, So, you know, you
want the outcome. I want my kid to be
educated.
>> Yeah, right. Right. And well, and the
problem is a lot of parents are like, My
kids get Just give me the A. You get the
>> the A you get the way.
>> It's an A, right? And then what happens
is then when they take their PSAT or
SAT,
it's not as high as they want it.
>> Yeah. But then it's like the school's
like, Well, too late.
And then some parents hire, you know,
massively expensive after-school
tutoring, right? I mean, the
after-school tutoring market's like $50
billion. It's insane.
It's insanely huge because schools,
parents, even at high-end private
schools,
like the percent of kids at a high-end
private school who also have a tutor,
right? When I look I was like, This is
insane. Aren't you sending your kid to
the school to like learn?
>> Yeah, why do they have Why do they need
a tutor?
>> is there a huge after-school tutor
market? I'm like, We commit that your
kid will learn during the day. They
don't need that time and you don't have
to hire a tutor. That's insane.
I was asking my kids last night what
questions I should ask you and they came
up with two. So, one one asked, How do
you teach physics to high schoolers?
>> Mhm. And what program you use? And let's
tackle that one and then we'll talk
about it. So, there's a great So, Math
Academy is the best math app out there
for fourth through 12th. There's a um a
a new one called Physics Graph who they
they're online and uh
they are the physics version of Math
Academy. Okay. Um and so, I would go get
it. I don't know um I think, you know,
back to AP,
I'm trying to remember exactly their
product. There's like physics uh I
always ABC 1 2 3, whatever it is, on the
AP test. The first one is based on
algebra.
And then the third one is based on
calculus. Okay. And so I don't know if
they've released the calculus one yet,
but on the algebra the other
you just use physics graph. Awesome.
>> Physics graph is is is the way to to go.
I know a couple other products that are
about to be released next year.
Um but if you're in it right now, if
you're if
>> That's the one.
>> Great, then I would do that. And then
the other question was what happens
after you've had a couple years now of
students graduate, they go to university
or go out in the real world or whatever
it is they're doing college. Um what
happens? Cuz now they they go from the
structured environment, high coaching,
high standards,
a lot of hands-on to Yeah. good luck.
Yeah.
So um well, one of the things even
though we have high support, these all
our kids are self-driven learners,
right? They have to during the two hours
learn how to be able to learn on their
own.
Right? And so that's one of our tests of
are you a self-driven learner? Our
eighth graders all know how to get a
five on an AP on their self. Like every
eighth grader actually knows everything
I want to learn is on YouTube. Right.
Everything. Yeah. And so you're just
like, okay, pick some random AP that
you're interested in.
You know, not one of the core hard ones,
but just pick one, right? And uh
go learn it.
And go figure out. And there's all the
resources are available and then you
know, so that's our that's how we show,
okay, you're a self-driven learner. You
can learn anything for the rest of your
life,
you know, without somebody spoon-feeding
you, yeah, you know, the material. But
at the college level, so we had um
let's see, here's one where uh where do
people go? So our first class was we had
12 graduates. Um 11 of them went to
college.
Uh the 12th is one of the world's best
water skiers. Uh and so he's building
his media empire while he water skis. He
was like, I'm not going to college. The
other ones got all got into their first
choice colleges. We get into into
Stanford or Vanderbilt or NYU Shanghai
or you know, wherever you want to go.
Because our academic scores are just
through the roof. Then, we also have
these killer Alpha X projects in the
afternoon, where kids have 4 years to
work on a passion project. We didn't
even get into this. And so, they look
just they look like a completely
different character Right.
>> than the average college grad. So, they
They stand out. Just contrast.
>> contrast. And and super impressive.
Right? I mean, this one I she'll
probably kill me because I'm not
supposed to talk about it, but you know,
we may have No high school
um student has ever been the lead
researcher on something published in
nature.
And we have an Alpha kid who's
submitted, it hasn't been accepted yet.
Um and so, that's why I shouldn't have
mentioned it yet, in case it doesn't.
But
literally, like high school No one,
right? That's usually
I mean, that if if if she was a PhD,
Yeah. that would consider be considered
like one of the most impressive things
of her career. And she's literally 17
years old in high school. And it's
because they're a lot they have 4 years
to work on awesome things and do just
amazing things.
Um and so, uh
Anyway, so in college
But now it's not 2-hour learning. Now
it's college. It's the 90 years what
they did. No, so they do. So, we went so
um I I met with them at Christmas after
they all the 11 who went.
And uh it was six or seven of them. And
I was like, "Okay, guys, how are we
doing?"
Everybody had a 4.0.
Um they were crushing it. They loved
college, the whole social environment
and stuff, and you know, some were in
sororities, and you know, they're doing
all the different things, and they loved
it. And I was like, "Well, what's the
worst part?" They're like, "Okay, those
lectures are a total waste of time. They
are a complete waste of time. Literally,
I sit in there, and they're just
terrible." Four of them had written
editorials to their school papers about,
"Can we stop the charade that are these
lectures?" Literally, there's 200 people
in a class. None of them are paying
attention. They're on their computer
like scrolling TikTok or just doing
other stuff, right? The teacher's
terrible. Is is a good teacher, right?
And this is just a waste of time and I'm
they all learn, you know? So like back
to my my daughter is a math English
major.
You know, and she's like, I just use
Math Academy.
She's like she's you know, she I used to
skip classes when I was I didn't like
school. I was not like my older
daughter. And she always had disdain for
me where she's like, you should go to
class, Dad. And now that once she
finally went, she's like, okay, I get
it. I get why you skip class cuz it's
totally a waste of time. And so I
believe in college. You know, Harvard
published a paper that their best
teaching classes, their physics 101
class, one of their best, you know,
teachers,
and they did an AB test with AI tutors
versus them.
And they published that Harvard, you
know, this great paper, Harvard says AI
tutor is better than Harvard teachers.
And, you know, they learn twice as much
using the AI tutor as going to class.
And so it's just it's it's just facts,
right? And so hundred series classes in
university are going to go away.
Like as soon as everybody figures out
this AI tutor stuff, they're just going
to go away. Now, small group seminars,
they love it, right? You're in a small
group writing seminar, that's super
awesome. Like when in our writing
classes and stuff. So it's it's not like
universities are going to go away cuz
some kids still need time to grow up,
right? And they need the socialization
and all those other things. But the big
lecture classes, those are gone.
Those are a waste of time.
What were you like as a student?
The world's worst student. Tell me more
about that.
I was um
you know, academically
uh
you know, people would definitely say, I
can't believe Joe's doing education if
you knew me in in at Stanford.
I dropped out. Um you know, it this is
you know, back to
every kid has a passion for learning.
It's just not always academics. Mhm. And
that was me.
Right? I just I didn't care. I hated
school. And I'm just like, I don't care
about these classes.
Right? And, you know,
when I dropped out,
you know, when I started my company,
I went from I used to do the minimum
amount of work.
I mean, I literally like in my high
school,
the way our grading system worked is you
you got four points for an A.
But there's no A minus, no A plus, no
nothing. Just, right? And an 89.5
rounds to a 90, which was an A.
And I literally would do the minimum
work to get an 89.5.
Like not an 89.6.
I remember one time I didn't turn in I I
didn't answer all the questions on a
test
cuz I knew I didn't need to finish the
test to get the 89.5 in the grade. And
my teachers were just like, what, right?
I was just a nightmare.
Because I just whatever the minimum was.
And, you know, my parents weren't really
excited about. Now, it was a minimum bar
of, okay, I'm still going to get into
Stanford cuz I wanted to go there. But I
wanted to go there cuz I wanted to start
a company.
Right? I knew I wanted to be an
entrepreneur. And so I go, and then I'm
in class at Stanford. I'm like in some
Spanish class. I'm like, okay, what am I
doing?
And so anyway, I drop out. So I there's
nobody who thinks I was a good student,
including I wasn't a good student, but
there wasn't like always like nobody. It
was just misunderstood.
>> Right? No, no, no. I was definitely not
a good student. And then I drop out. And
then I started working 100 plus hours,
sleeping under the desk, right? Super
passionate. Cuz you're motivated. I got
I loved it. I found, right, my spark. I
found what I loved. And I'd never worked
harder in my life. Like it was insane.
And my dad, who, you know, there's this
he was not happy that I dropped out,
right? But 18 months later, when we were
talking, he's like, "God, I'm so glad
you dropped out."
He's like, you know, and he's like, you
know, I was so worried that you were a
lazy little
Your whole academic career, you were
just a shirker, right? You just didn't
You never engaged in anything. And you
know, as a parent, like you don't want
your kid to be just a You know, a
slacker. You want And he's like, "And
you found it. You found what you love,
and you're working your ass off on it,
and it's just great."
Right? And our My view of that is that
concept, what I found after dropping out
of college, we want to get that into
kids in middle and high school. Like,
what do they love? Like, as they hit
adolescence, who do they want to be?
What do they love? And let's get them
started on that. Mhm. Right? Now,
there's some minimum academics you have
to do, right? You want to start a
business plan, you got to know some
math. You want to write good proposals,
right? You have to be able to write. So,
it's not like you can
skip all the academic side. But, you do
it motivated by stuff that you love,
right? Um and back to if we want to get
kids We're competing with Tik Tok and
Fortnite.
But, kids' vision of who they want to be
is awesome.
So, let's go get, right? Associate with
what they want to be there, right? And
that's what's going to drive and
motivate them to, you know, learn all
the skills they need.
Um
if you You know, if you look at our kids
doing these huge Alpha X projects that
are so impressive,
right? It's because they're working on
stuff. I mean, it's harder stuff than
we ever worked on in high school. For
sure.
>> don't think it's work cuz they love it.
You know, no, we have a We have a girl
she's
>> And this is when you didn't think it was
work when you were sleeping on the
floor.
>> Exactly. Work's not It's like my now now
job, which by the way, just as a
sidebar,
everybody should go into education. If
you're like
wondering like what you should do the
next 10 years, come into education. It's
awesome.
But, cuz it It is fun. Uh but, they can
We have a We have a a high school she's
doing a Broadway musical.
Right? Launch all teen-produced Broadway
musical. She's sourced all the singers
off Tik Tok. Million streams the first
week when they went. They can fill they
filled like four times they filled the
venue. It's not big enough to be on
Broadway. It's still like not quite big
enough but they're they're doing it. And
you know, you listen to her and she's
like having to learn about music rights,
right? And legal right and all this
stuff. I mean it's hard it's harder than
any high school class.
>> how we should teach. And this girl will
spend endless hours on it cuz she loves
it cuz she's putting on her musical.
It's hers, right? And the team and all.
And just think of those projects for all
kids, right? Everybody can do that.
Right? And so and that's where when we
talk about with this if we're going to
get them ready for this AI world that's
coming, that's what we need to get them
ready for not
bore them for 6 hours a day in class
where we waste 90% of their time, you
know, learning a bunch of material that
is becoming commoditized, right? LLMs
are reducing, right? The value of that
knowledge. Now, AI also is taking it
away on that side but it's also letting
you learn 10 times faster. So, you know,
it's sort of this balance of just You
got to you figure out what parts you
want to learn. I remember Elon in
interview said something that made a ton
of sense to me. He was like traditional
schools teach you like here's a wrench,
here's when you use it when they should
be like here's an engine, let's fix it.
Oh, you need a wrench to like take that
off. So, like we got to figure out what
it's used for and like it's sort of like
that's the approach that you're taking.
>> Exactly. You take So, like let me I'll
give you example like our sports
academy. Like we want to teach public
speaking, right? Storytelling and public
speaking such a great skill, right? For
kids or for adults everybody. And but
you go to a 10-year-old boy and you're
like we're going to teach you public
speaking. You're like okay, they have
turned off.
But our sports Excuse me, at our sports
academy
post game press conference. Are you
ready for it? And these kids are like
okay. Like right? And you're going to
learn all those skills those same public
speaking skills where our eyes going to
grade you and do it. Of course they want
to do that, right? Or
you're going to learn financial
literacy.
Roll the eyes.
We got to work on your Nike $5 million
contract.
All of a sudden they're ready to right?
They're going to learn they're going to
dive in and become the world's experts
in all those skills. And so the thing
that when you talk about stuff,
associating it with stuff kids love
that's in their interest, right? Back to
I understand their interest graph.
Kids will kids will love it and work
because it's and everybody knows this,
right? If it's related to what your
interests are,
you'll spend endless time on it.
There's kids like just think of how long
they spend on YouTube on some obscure
thing where you're just like, oh my god.
Like no, we have we have a kid
who can like he he knows everything
about World War II battles.
And you know like those geolocators who
know anything in the whole world and
it's a little picture and it's there.
This kid knows it for every World War II
battle. Like you can show him any
picture from a battle. He's like, oh
that was in Poland in 1942. And what a
crazy I mean it's just insane, right?
But the kid he's interested in it,
right? Kids will learn endless stuff if
they're interested and what we have to
do as schools is say, okay, this is what
we want them to learn cuz these are fun
there are fundamental things you want to
learn, but we need to do it where
they're doing projects that are hard and
have meaning to them.
You mentioned your father. Is it true
that he didn't invest in your company?
Yeah, I know that's totally true. He um
Yeah, my my dad very much was worried
about me being a spoiled kid. Um
uh you know, he grew up with nothing and
then got to success later in his life
and so was terrified of that. And so you
know, he's like, look if you have a good
idea, other people are going to invest
in it. And if I'm investing in it,
right? It just means no it was it was
such a crappy idea no one else would
give you money.
He's like, so go
convince people that it's a good idea.
Um you know, back to the standard which
is a true statement, right? If if if
your parent you know, you know, if if
your parent's leading
right, or giving you money, then
uh If they're leading you around, maybe
it's not
>> have a good idea. You don't have a good
idea. Go convince somebody else.
>> And so, he used to work for Jack Welch,
right?
>> Yes, he did. And so, he was Jack's
strategic planner. Um
uh Mark, his son, you know, we play
hockey, go skiing together. Um
And so, I had a business background
upbringing, which is maybe why I knew I
wanted to be an entrepreneur.
>> about that, cuz I remember reading one
anecdote. Actually, you had two
conversations with Jack Welch. One when
you were 12 about gross margins. Do you
remember that one?
>> I I I had a lot. I spent a lot of time
with Jack. So, Jack, you know, my dad
passed when I was 25. And so, there
these are probably the later ones you
talk about. And Jack called me and he's
like, "Look, I'll be your mentor going
forward." And so, every year I would
actually fly up and spend a couple days
at GE and at Jack's house
with him uh coaching and and helping me.
>> the most memorable conversation you had
with him? Oh, god, there was a lot. So,
you know, uh
between he and my dad, they they there's
a there's a ton of them if you want
them, which is, you know, one was
uh Mark and I were playing hockey and we
were small for age and both our dads
played hockey. Um
uh
Jack and my dad. And uh so,
we weren't good at it. And so, we're
like, "We want to switch to skiing."
Don't tell a hockey dad that you want to
be a skier, okay? Um they're My dad was
from I was born in Minnesota, and so,
you know, hockey is
I'm from Canada. That's like religion
for us.
>> It's it's the religion. And he's like,
"Uh and so, Jack's like, 'Okay, I'll
only do this.
There's a there's a uh race at the end
of the year. Chimney Peak was the name
of it. He's like, "You two need to come
in first and second. And if you guys are
willing to do that, I'll let you switch
over to skiing."
And he gets he's on the phone with my my
dad. He's like, "Greg,
our kids are going to be first and
second in the race, so they're going to
have to work really hard. So, buy your
kids some skis.
You know, uh
literally
we would literally you know, during the
summer like you run up the mountain
literally after school, they drop us
off, weekends, drop us off ski. End of
the year, Mark came in first, I came in
second.
And Jack's like
wasn't it worth it?
You know, and just back to high
standards. Like the guy crazy high
standards.
Um gross margin, you brought up that
one, you know, where they had sold their
um they'd swapped their business with uh
I think it was Thompson Medical at the
time
where they had TVs. GE had TVs and
Thompson they swapped it for their CAT
scanners cuz they had GE Medical and it
was you know, one of these deals.
And I was like, dude, like TVs are the
only cool thing you guys make, you know,
when you're young, right? CAT scanner,
really boring. And Jack's like, let's
talk about gross margin.
Right? Cuz TVs have none and CAT
scanners make a lot of money.
And so I was learning about gross
margin.
And I'm going to bring that back I'll
I'll go back to the story but I'm going
to bring it to a related one. So, we
have kids who launched a food truck, our
fifth graders, like launched a food
truck at Alpha.
And so I was talking with them and I was
like, why did you guys, you know, pick
breast breakfast foods?
You know, on for your food truck.
They're like, have you seen the gross
margins on a breakfast food? And I was
like, okay, this is the most awesome
thing ever. Which is cuz they're
building a real business and you got to
know gross margins, right? And these are
fifth and sixth graders, right? And and
so kids loved just like I learned and
loved it young. Everybody can learn this
stuff if you're if they're interested.
We have other kids who don't like, you
know,
uh launching food trucks. But for those
who do, it was awesome.
Uh and then once I once um you know,
back to my 20s when I was building my
business
you know, Jack Jack was both
super, you know, harsh
you know, when you talk about high
standards, high support, it's both where
he would just be like
I I remember this particular story was
I was the youngest self-made member of
the Forbes 400, right? I want the cover.
And so, I'm flying up to
you know, where my annual mentoring
thing that I was going to do with him,
and I'm all like
Right? Check this out, right? I'm all
that.
And do you want to sign copy?
>> Yeah, exactly, Jack. I'm sure you want
to sign copy of this, right? And I mean
I I full of myself, obviously. And um
I get there and you know, he's we're
talking about stuff and he's trying to
understand cuz he's astounded by, you
know,
how much
my company was worth and all that stuff.
And um
Uh so, at the end of he's like, "Okay,
so I guess if I had to classify you, you
you're like a I'm trying to remember the
G levels. You're like a level eight
project manager product manager."
You know, like that's my like he's like
that's sort of like your skill set,
right? And
at the time
realistically, it was, right? I I I had
other I had this set of skills, but
fundamentally, that's that's what I was.
And he's just like
"You know, Joe, you have to decide
whether you're going to sit here and,
you know, be full of yourself and decide
that you're awesome, or if you're going
to decide you are now at the case where
you can go spend the rest of your life
and freaking crush it."
Right? Is this your first step or your
last step?
Right? Are you done? Have you just
declared victory and hey, everybody look
at me, I won the race? Or you like, "Oh
my god, I'm only on the first step of
the race."
And then he is the most inspirational
person cuz he sort of had to he shocks
you a little bit with the
who are, you know, and then inspires you
to greatness. Right? Where I remember I
was flying back from that trip and I
that whole plane ride back I had a I was
writing a hundred things down that I had
to go do.
Right? That I was on the I I sure I made
sure I was going to be on the first
step, not on my last step.
Right? And so, just that kind of great
inspirational um he was amazing at. And
other level setting, like this was a big
one for me was
in '97 we won e-commerce product of the
year. In '97 was back to bought.com. It
was big e-commerce year. I'm like, I won
the e-commerce product. That's why we
were very successful one of the things.
And you know, GE had used it, G Medical
had used it, uh Immelt's group. And
literally
I met with Jack and he's like, "Yeah, I
hear Med doesn't like your product." I'm
like, "Dude, it freaking won e-commerce
product of the year."
And I he literally was like
"Joe,
I don't care if it comes from heaven
above.
If GE doesn't get an ROI,
your product, you, and your company
suck."
Mhm. That's
"Where's our ROI?"
And
it was like an eye-opener to me where I
was literally just product guy where I
was like, I delivered a good product.
And he's like, "If your customers don't
get value, Mhm.
nothing matters."
Right? And I was just like, "Huh."
Right? And it totally reset my whole
view of like what a company would have
to do. And you know, I if I had applied
to education now, education thinks their
job is sort of just to put kids through
school.
Ours is to actually have learning.
Right? Kids have to love school and they
have to learn, right? And when we
designed our educational system, I think
we're the only school in the world who
if a kid's not learning, it's our fault.
It's the system's fault. It's not the
kids.
Right? If if our kids aren't learning
2x, you know, in 2 hours and they're
failing,
it's my fault. What did I do wrong?
Yeah. How do Is my motivational model
not right? Do I need a different guide?
Was the lesson I gave them not the right
level? Was it not a good lesson? Was I
not coaching them the right way? But
what did I do wrong? versus a lot of
school systems say, "Huh, kid's fault."
Right? And that can
you can draw it sort of back to his
resetting me of are they getting value
out of what you're doing? And I'm like,
"Oh, it's my responsibility to make sure
all the kids learn."
Uh these days. So, anyway, so yeah, I
had all those kind of things. It was it
was awesome. What a crazy experience. Um
at one point you were going to IPO
Trilogy and you IPO'd PCorder.com,
right?
>> Yes, we did. And then you ended up
buying it back. I want to hear the story
about that and then what changed your
mind about being public with Trilogy.
>> Uh the PC order story
helped me realize I didn't want to be
public. So, PC order was um actually one
of the Trilogy co-founders, Christy,
you know, had this idea of, "Okay, I'm
going to build PC order." Um which was
online selling computers online back in
dot com days.
And, you know, built it up super
successful, had all the biggest
resellers aboard.
Um and then she went public.
And then basically Dell put her customer
base out of business.
And so then sh- she her business went
terrible.
And so the stock went from 50 to five or
something. I can't exactly remember, but
you know, down 90 90 plus percent. So,
it went public.
Uh you know, ran up in all the hype and
then imploded.
Uh and then we bought it back and just,
you know, said, "Okay." Um
And, you know, for me uh so I've kept
Trilogy private. You know, to this day
it's still private.
And a lot of it is just um
I prefer just to be 100% in control.
Yeah, frankly. Just my my daughters give
me T- You know, Marcus Lemonis on The
Profit, if you know that TV show. He
has, "I'm 100.0%
in charge."
That's pretty much my attitude. Um Is it
like that with everything? Are are
things you're completely hand-off like
are you hands-off or completely hands-on
but nothing in between? Correct. Yeah,
I'm I am I'm in charge or hey, I'm the
your biggest supporter good luck
around it. But yeah, I don't do well on
the 50/50 consensus kind of stuff. Um
I'm my just I
I push the edge on radical stuff and
I I'm like I don't want to vote.
You don't get to vote on this, right?
We're going to do this. It's not a
democracy.
>> Yeah, it's not a democracy. We're going
to do this. And if you want to come on
board we're going to do this. Like if
you want to come and start a school
right? On time back
you're going to do 2X in 2 hours.
And there's a whole set of people who
are like, well, how about we do 1X in 1
hour cuz 1X is as good as every other
school.
And I'm like, well, go do that with
somebody else's offering. If you're
going to use mine you're so all these
coaches who are setting up these sports
academies, they're like, well, some of
the parents don't care. I'm like, sorry.
We're going to do it this way. We I
delivering awesome academic outcomes.
Right?
Yeah. That's just it's who I am and
that's just I I don't want to vote
around that. Reminds me of something
Alan Mulally said which is like when he
was turning around Ford, he was like,
here's how we're going to do it and if
you don't want to choose to be a part of
that, that's on you.
But if you're here, this is how we're
going to Yeah, no alignment. Like we
like, you know, we do the three
commitments to the kids.
Your kid will love school, they'll learn
2X in 2 hours and then life skills.
Those those those three commitments.
Every kid.
Every kid. We have to do that for every
kid. And if you're in my organization
Yeah. you wake up every day and say I'm
going to deliver that. And you can never
blame the student, you can never make an
excuse around that. And if you don't
like that just don't come.
Because that's what we're going to be
about, right? We lose about 50% of our
educators when we tell them they're
accountable for the kid learning. Oh,
cuz they're not used to it, right? And
they're like, no, it's the kid's fault.
What if he doesn't do this? Or what
about that? I'm like
Yeah. Our guides are measured on do they
deliver the three commitments to every
kid? Every kid.
Right? And that's, you know, it's just
really important. Um
and you have to have that, you know,
focus. No, I one of my public school one
of my There's a kid When I first came
in,
you can imagine there was skepticism,
you know, cuz I would say crazy stuff.
There'll be no adults academic teaching
in this building.
You know, I just If now with hindsight,
you're like, well, duh, it works, but
before that, that's crazy talk, whether
you're a parent or a teacher, right?
It's just It's It's And you know, but
the set of teachers and parents who
stayed, you know, who were like, okay,
I'm in.
I was There was one who was, you know,
basically from public school, and I was
like, you know, and I'm an evil
billionaire, you know, and so every evil
billionaire does education, all those
all those, you know, uh
appropriate memes.
And I was like, eventually, what was it
that won you over to stay and be part of
it? And she was like, it was because uh
your just constant focus
that it had to be every kid.
That we'd come in and we'd be like,
okay, we got 90% of the kids there. And
you're like,
let's focus on the ones we want, and
what do we have to do, and what do we
have to fix to get that for every single
one?
And that's back to building a system
that if we're going to get this out to a
billion kids, that's the mental That's
the model we have to have.
And that's, you know, um back to being
100.0% charge. What makes it so great
is, you know, if you're going to be on
time back and using this system, it's
going to be every kid.
What's the biggest problem with scaling?
There's a lot. So, scaling's hard. This
is, you know, this is sort of back to
your Elon example. This is, you know,
building your first prototype is really
easy. And how do you build the factory
that turns it out? And so, a lot of what
I've been doing in the last 3 years is
how do I build the system
that's going to allow this to scale. And
so Time Bucks, you know, a key element
on the academic side. But that sounds
like it would scale pretty easy. Once
you figure out the compute uh and bring
the cost to compute down, like totally,
it's That's part's going to be easy.
That's easy. You could add a billion
people to it effectively if you had the
compute power for it. Yes.
>> Uh and that wouldn't be
>> Exactly. So that part's I we've
commoditizing how the 6 hours a day down
to come up with that.
Now, let's talk about all the other hard
parts.
Let's talk about there's physical and
then virtual. So on physical schools,
how do you measure guides?
And how do you have the metrics so as
you open new buildings, right, new
schools, that you're sure what happens
in all the other schools, right? So, you
know, we we we call them painfully
insightful metrics.
So we
we wake, you know, our our org, you
know, every summer when we're
redesigning, you know, for the next
year, we sit down and we say, "What are
the painfully insightful metrics that we
need to know such that we know that new
school we opened that we've never
visited
is as good as our Austin flagship,
right? And all our guides, you know, and
everybody in the org is like,
"We can't Every year they get better."
Like, "How do I know I don't have a
bullying culture, you know, somewhere,
right? What's the question? What's the
survey question? What's the metric I can
collect to know that?" So obviously on
the academic side, right, we have the
best closed-loop system in our
you know, that collects all the data. So
I know on a daily basis if you're
learning, Yep. right? And so I have all
that. But how do I know if my culture's
good? How do I know if I've hired the
right guide? What if I have a wrong
guide, right? How do I measure all that?
So we have the same level of metrics
that we do around our school and our
system that we do around our academics.
Okay. So, I know within 8 weeks whether
my guide's good or not. And a lot of
this So, a lot of it comes from
results. Are they delivering three
commitments to all the kids? But it's
everything also surveys. We ask the
kids.
Every adult had one or two teachers who
transformed their life. Is your guide
that for you?
Right? To the parents, do you trust your
guide
to hold high standards so you can
provide unconditional love, right? You
know, at kindergarten, you're like, "Do
you love your guide?" But we ask, you
know, so you just are asking these
questions, right? Um to to get the data
that you need. We have quantified all
the metrics on the life skills.
So, I know it's not just, "Oh yeah, our
kids have grit." Or, "Oh, they're good
public speakers." I'm like, "No,
everybody in our class scored 95% on our
eye and every fifth grader beat a
Wharton MBA in teamwork and leadership."
And so, we we quantify everything.
Right? So, that we and measure it and
then can react to it if we have a
problem. Cuz you do, right? You Every
guide's not perfect, but then can we
swap one out uh quickly.
>> So, part of scaling it sounds like is uh
quickly identifying
uh surfacing problems so they can be
addressed while they're small, uh not
letting them fester. Exactly. And it's
it's asking the hard question. It's easy
to ask easy questions,
right? It's why we move the question
from, "Do you love school?" to, "Do you
love school more than vacation?" Right.
Cuz do you love school? My comparison,
when you say that to a kid, it's like,
"Well, it's better than my old school.
My old school sucked." Yeah. Right? But
you're like, "Better than vacation,
though." That's a harder standard. Your
old school, if you're comparing to your
old school, it's too easy. Better than
vacation, that's a hard standard.
>> As a parent, I would also feel like I'm
not giving my kids a very good vacation
if they want to go Well, that's That's
That Back to our thing, right? Your kids
are with their friends all day doing
awesome stuff.
>> stuff they love. And they're doing the
stuff they love that's hard and
challenging with a guide who's
supporting them, right? It is hard to
beat. That is why on Saturdays they're
like, "God, I wish I could go to
school."
Just building all that kind of stuff.
So, so but you're always trying to
figure out what is that extra question,
right? Like, how do we know if the
parents really love the school?
Right? What is it? Like, will the parent
create testimonial videos?
You know, of their school cuz it's
totally crazy, right? Of cuz people are
always like, "You go to that weird
school where they don't have teachers?"
And you know, all that kind of stuff.
And so like, we went through back to our
standard, which is we opened all these
schools, all these new locations. I'm
like, "How do I know if they're good?"
Well,
we have 6 and 1/2 hours of testimonial
videos from people families who joined
the last 10 weeks about them saying, you
know, "It's only been 10 weeks and my
kids' life's transformed." And so you
just you're out there trying to figure
out what's the hard question to ask. You
show it publicly. We show all our grades
publicly. We give all the, you know, uh
all these testimonies. You see everybody
around it. And that's our control group,
right? For that. And then the other
part's just core culture, right? Just
your core culture of
do you believe in delivering the three
commitments to every kid?
And if you don't believe in that, don't
come. And everything's based around it.
And if you're a guide, you have to
deliver to your students.
But if you're on my academic team
creating lessons, you do too. Yeah. So
like, if a kid is struggling and can't
get through your lesson,
the guy who did the lesson is going to
get on a call with them. Yeah. Right?
Back when I lose 50% of them, when you
have some of these learning science
researchers and they realize they have
to deal with kids and our account
managers
>> easier on paper. Exactly. And you you
lose some cuz they don't want to do it.
But you build that culture of, you know,
and back to even growth. So like, our
growth team, right? Cuz we're expanding.
You know, they wake up every day and the
first thing they work the, you know, we
have three concentric circles. The first
is
is there something you need to do to
deliver three commitments to every
existing child in the school?
And if there is, go do it. Like if
there's a problem at an existing campus
and you can fix it, don't worry about
some new campus. Go fix it.
>> Yeah. Then the second is, have we filled
every school that we already have?
Because the number of classmates is an
important part of school.
Right? And when you start a school, it's
smaller and then you want to grow it.
And so the second thing we're doing is
we want to make sure for our existing
students that we're giving them awesome
classmates.
Right? And then and only then, after you
do those first two circles, do you say,
should we open to a new location?
Right? And
building that culture is hard,
especially we have we're the most talked
about school in the world. We have
demand, you know, through the roof.
We're called from every country.
Secretary of Education's down here. I
got 10 governors who, you know, are
coming down. Everybody wants this model.
And I'm like, high quality at all times,
right? Never relent on quality because
we have to deliver every kid and we'll
get it to everybody. So those are our
physical school rules. Right? Now, I'm
not going to be able to get to a billion
kids next year if I have to build the
schools. Yeah. And so then I get to the
second when we talk about virtual, how
can I, you know, scale it without that?
So one way
is, you know,
the the Time Bucks offer works. So we're
going to let people build on it. Right?
And so anybody who wants to build a
school, now's the time.
Right? If you have an idea of what the
afternoon should be, Yeah. right? Come
do it. We're hiring a thousand coaches.
Right? Through Texas in Texas for Texas
Sports Academy for these middle schools.
Right? The we have, you know, 500 GT
schools for gifted talented kids. I have
somebody who's loves Montessori, so
we're going to have a Montessori school.
We have a wilderness school. Right?
Where if you think the wilderness in the
afternoon. So there's all these great
opportunities for entrepreneurs, right?
Who want to go then build schools. So
we're there's going to just going to be
a Think of Shopify for microschool or
for schools, right? That's what Time
Bucks going to be and it's going to
explode it. And then there's the the
pure virtual, which is well,
homeschoolers. Yep. Right? And everybody
else. That's what my kids want. They
want the 2 hours on the weekends.
>> Great. Well, so here's what they're
going to get. So, here's what they're
going to get.
And or here's our problem and what we've
been working on is
you know, if 10% of it is the ed tech,
you know, the timeback, how are you if I
let it out of my environment,
I I no longer can give the kids a
timeback. If I own all 6 hours and I
give you four, yep, I got the
motivators. I got the motivation. But at
home school,
I don't have that. Or after school, no
one you know, I can't tell you how many
my daughters are like, no one's going to
school after school. Yeah. My kids will.
I'll make
>> Right? You'll make them, right? But no,
I need to make them love it more than
vacation, right? Not just There's a set
of parents who'll make them, for sure.
>> Well, I know what'll happen. They'll
start doing it and then they'll be like,
why do I have to go to school?
>> Exactly. And that's what I want. Which
is So, how do we 90% is motivation, so
how do we solve it? So, we've spent all
our time and when we release timeback
next year,
the set of motivations for these kids
are going to be awesome.
Right?
>> Like give me an example.
>> So,
well,
let's just take
what let's take middle school boys.
Their number one motivation is video
games.
>> Mhm. So, imagine if you got some of the
world's best video game designers, like
the best, not your Prodigy guys.
Right? The best ever who made the
world's best video games.
And you got 150 building and said, go
build the world's best video game on top
of this where the kids are going to play
2 hours a day and become top 1%.
Right?
I bet your kids, if they're video
gamers, are going to love to play that.
Mhm. Right? And be super interested in
that.
Or
let's talk about like an after school
for kids who need after school tutoring.
We just ran this uh as a test.
Imagine they ins- like Kumon, if you
know some of these two everybody hates
it, right? Oh my god, it's all terrible.
They're in dingy building. What if you
just went to Dave & Buster's? Yeah. And
then in the Dave & Buster's like in the
little, you know, birthday rooms or
whatever, they did their hour with the
tutor. And you earned like
>> And you earned your little card and then
you went out in the afternoon. Or what
if online after you did that, you were
able to go into a 10,000 person's Twitch
stream with some of the best video
gamers in the world, right? Who's your
famous Who's the streamers you like?
Right? Who are the influencers you like?
So imagine there's influencers, right?
Where you're getting social cred,
right? Based on being able to do this.
Now, and if you want as parents, what if
I allowed you to do a 100 for 100?
So,
just take our system and you as the
parent could put in the the money,
right? And all of a sudden
the kid gets it,
right? And what if especially when I
took that money
and I didn't let him spend it.
It went into the Robinhood for kids
account to teach them financial acumen
and investing and
financial literacy. Yeah. What if it was
that? Right? Or what if I had an
associated life skill project where it
funded your trip to New York so that you
could go meet the producer for your
musical.
You know, or it funded your robot war
that you were going to do. All ideas.
Or just more mundanely, what if it was
was what manage your screen time?
So every parent struggles with how much
screen time.
Well, what if there's just the time back
that's like guys,
let me be in charge of your kids screen
time cuz I'll make sure they get to top
1%. Yeah. And if they're top 1%, you're
going to give them some more screen
time? Yeah. Totally. Yeah. Right? And so
it's going to manage all that for the
parents, right? And the parents are
going to be like, oh my god, my kids top
1% and they're super happy cuz they hit
this and then oh my god, I got some
gaming time or I got some Tik Tok time
or whatever it is. I was able to
control, you know, uh those kind of
elements. So, wrapping in all the
motivational stuff. There's just there's
a hundred ways to motivate kids, right?
There's going to be social, peer,
gaming. Like we have a multi-user
version where the kids are could just
competing. Right? Think of video games
but just, you know, you're competing on
academics and, you know, the 10% of kids
who really love academics, They love
that.
>> I mean, oh my god, those kids, you know,
they're they're they're they just run
out of curriculum. There's just not
enough to teach them.
Like they're just, you know, they just
they blow up
uh blow through the top of the charts.
What does the science say?
I can imagine this to be controversial
about paying kids to learn.
Yeah, external
external and extrinsic motivation versus
intrinsic. There's a huge debate about
it and I believe we'll have the biggest
real data set in the world. Um
uh What are the What are the And so
here's there's there's both. There's
there's there's both sets of papers,
which is um there's a paper that
literally that you should you could look
up that says there's no such thing as
intrinsic motivation because even if
you're intrinsically motivated, it's
because of something. Yeah. You know,
even a good student,
they want the accolades of being a good
student.
>> Yeah. Is there a true love of learning
or is there a true love of
accomplishment?
>> Yeah. And what's the accomplishment
getting you? And so, you can go read
that paper and have a very strong view
of there's no difference between paying
kids and and boost It's why in sports
parents often hold their kid back a
year. Yeah. So, they're bigger, so then
they win a little bit, and then once
they win, they get jump-started, and
then they're good, and now they like it
because they keep getting accolades that
they're good at it. Academics is the
same way. You just need to jump-start
them on paying.
And then, like
those kids, so in our middle school,
we'll pay any kid a thousand dollars to
become top 1%.
>> Yeah. You know, so when they transfer
in, oh my god, top 1% is too hard. You
pay them a thousand dollars, they get to
top 1%. It changes their internal view
of themselves.
>> Yeah. That I'm like, oh, I am a good
student. Then you don't have to pay them
anymore. Well, this
>> of a sudden they're going to do it
themselves cuz they changed their
internal view. And so part of all of
this stuff is when you talk about
extrinsic and intrinsic is if you can
change the kids internal view of their
capabilities, Mhm. it's worth using
whatever motivation you can, right? Back
to our guides. They use whatever lever
they need to pull with the kid to break
through. Kids have part of education is
kids have blocks about what they can do.
I'm not a math science girl. Yeah.
Right? And you're like, that just
doesn't exist. There's no like brain
chemistry that like I'm I'm I'm a middle
school girl, I can't learn math science,
right? You Yes, you can.
So I have to So all guides have to break
through that. And they'll do whatever it
takes. And if paying them a thousand
dollars is it or bringing them out to an
event or letting them go to an
off-campus lunch. What's Do you want an
off-campus Oh, you guys want to do an
off-campus lunch? You know, whatever the
currency is, social peer pressure, oh my
god, all the other girls are there.
Whatever it is, our guides will use to
get them there. Then once they're top
1%,
right? Boom.
Right? They're there forever. Our kids
at college aren't getting paid. They're
all 4.0 students.
Right? It just you change kids
capability to become self-driven
learners to to do that. But But there is
a fear of it. And there is I'm sure
there's a bad way to do it. But you
know, starting in kindergarten, our kids
earn alphas. Yeah. Because our If you
want to teach financial literacy, which
every parent wants, you know, you earn
alphas, you learn how to save, earn,
save, spend, invest, and donate. And
they start that cycle in kindergarten.
And then move it all the way up and it
gets bigger dollars as you get older,
but
you want your kid
in seventh grade, like if you give them
some phantom stock thing to teach them
to invest in seventh grade. I can tell
you that's terrible. Yeah. Because one,
it's not real money. They didn't earn
it. And they're going to YOLO it. YOLO
fully understood.
>> It's like a casino. It's not investing.
It's just gambling. Right? Versus wait,
I just earned this thousand dollars.
>> Yeah. That's mine.
>> Real money.
>> was hard.
>> Yeah. And it's mine. And I'm going to
invest it. Right? Now, we do let them
YOLO it and do something stupid and lose
all their money.
>> Yeah.
But then they've lost real money. And
it's the best lesson and it's better to
learn that in seventh grade than 27
years old. Right? And so, all those
things around it where trying to take
out, you know, one of the things is
if there's a bunch of Montessori, right?
Maria Montessori in Montessori schools.
She very much believed that kids should
be involved in real world things. She
actually has things where she's like,
kids, adolescents should earn money. Oh.
Right? And you know, that this having
them do work and the value of work and
that their work has value is a good
thing for child development. And we find
you know, I I think if you the best
thing you can do is ask alpha parents
who are like, no, this is all really
good. This isn't We're not poisoning the
kids and getting them to be this coin
addicted person who if they don't get
paid, they won't do any learning.
Right?
Instead
>> That's not how it works. It's just not
how it works. I mean, and you could get
kids on this and it's not like there
aren't times where the kids like, okay,
I'm going to do some extra things cuz I
want something. Yeah. Right? And so,
you know, But that's life. You do that.
>> correct. No, the the the um
uh musical, Maddie, who's doing the
musical,
she wasn't wanting to do the 790. She
got a 790 on her math SAT. She was below
it. And sorry, Maddie, I just outed you.
Um
uh
you know, she was below it. But she
wanted she needed money to go fly to New
York to meet the producer so she get
money to do her own thing.
And I was like, well,
what's what what does time back tell you
how many hours,
right, it's going to take you to get to
a 790. We were actually trying for 800,
right? And she it was like X and I'm
like, okay, go do it and you'll earn the
money and we'll buy your plane ticket up
there, right, to to do it.
Right? And so she did and then she got
her plane ticket. Right? And it was just
and it's just this concept of oh it was
work and you know, she was happy at 750
or 760 or whatever it is and then you
just move it up and It's work but she
also knows and learns that she's capable
of doing more if she pushes herself,
puts in extra effort. It's just it's
effort based. Do you want to do it? And
and back to just how life is. She's
like, yeah, I want this thing and now I
have the world's best Broadway musical
and it changed my world, right? Changing
what you know, she's going to go back in
college and she's like, I'm going to go,
you know, be arts theater forever. But
that and that's why the mask. She was
like, it was enough on her cuz she's an
arts theater girl. It also sounds like a
small enough effort, you know? Like
whereas before, even with a teacher or
guide, it's like this ambiguous thing.
It's huge, it's big, it's far away. I'm
not even going to try because it sounds
like a lot
>> 200 hours. Yeah. Right? I mean, we're 20
hours not 200, right? We're 10 times
faster. And so there's the two parts.
There are two both things you said were
totally correct.
It was ambiguous. So I could just put a
bunch of time in and if you don't have
an AI tutor, you can study for a long
time and your SAT scores don't go up.
Right? And so the first is we're not
ambiguous. We're like, here it is.
You're 17 hours away. You're 4 hours
away. Like in our dashboard, it
literally says, you know, you're 6 hours
from finishing, you know, 6 or 6 weeks
from finishing it. If you go do an hour
of homework, you're like a week away.
Yep. Right? So it literally can just
tell you based on your work how long,
you know, to get there and when you put
the goal setting in, it'll tell you,
you know, all of that. And so, not being
ambiguous, right? And being definitive
to the students, critical. And then the
second, the numbers are small. It's
definitive and small. Right? You go
It's super manageable. Math Academy,
every parent, go look at Math Academy.
It's going to be like, "Oh, 28 hours
away." I want to say they just released
like their SAT program. They they've
been updating it.
And I want to say it's
180 hours?
We're going to we're going to try that
this weekend at the my kids want to
great sport. Well, you should. You
should totally look at it, but I want to
say it's like 180 hours. Yeah. Math like
That's it. Yeah. But, you know.
And then you're you're it's crazy.
>> Uh Joe, this has been a fascinating
conversation. We always end with the
same question, and I think I have an
idea of what you're going to say here,
but what is success for you?
Um that we transform education for 1
billion kids. So, that it's nothing like
what we had.
And the the
tagline, if I did give my tagline is
our job is to make this the best time in
history to be a 5-year-old.
That's incredible. That might be the
best answer ever. Thank you for taking
the time today. This was fascinating
conversation, one that rings true to me.
So, I really appreciate it.
>> I loved it. Thanks for the time.